# Set up Azure HPC or AI VMs

* Article
* 03/14/2023
* 2 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

This how-to guide explains how to create a basic Azure virtual machine (VM) for HPC and AI with NVIDIA or AMD GPUs. These VM sizes are intended for workloads that require high-performance computing (HPC sizes), or GPU-accelerated computing (AI sizes).

## Choose your VM size

Azure VMs have many different options, called [VM sizes](sizes). There are different series of [VM sizes for HPC](sizes-hpc) and [VM sizes GPU-optimized computing](sizes-gpu). Select the appropriate VM size for the workload you want to use. For help with selecting sizes, see the [VM selector tool](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/vm-selector/).

Not all Azure products are available in all Azure regions. For more information, see the current list of [products available by region](https://azure.microsoft.com/global-infrastructure/services/).

## Create your VM

Before you can deploy a workload, you need to create your VM through the Azure portal.

Depending on your VM's operating system, review either the [Linux VM quickstart](linux/quick-create-portal) or [Windows VM quickstart](windows/quick-create-portal). Then, create your VM with the following settings:

1. For **Subscription**, select the Azure subscription that you want to use for this VM.
2. For **Region**, select a region with capacity available for your VM size.
3. For **Image**, select the image of the VM you chose in the previous section.

Note

For the purpose of example, this guide uses the image **NVIDIA GPU-Optimized Image for AI & HPC – v21.04.1 – Gen 1**. If you're using another image, you might need to install other software, like the NVIDIA driver and Docker, before proceeding.
4. For **Size**, select the HPC or GPU instance type. For more information, see [how to choose your VM size](#choose-your-vm-size).
5. For **SSH public key source**, select **Generate a new key pair**.
6. Wait for key validation to complete.
7. When prompted, select **Download private key and create resource**.

Note

Downloading the key pair is necessary to SSH into your VM for later configuration.
8. For **Key pair name**, enter a name for your key pair.
9. Under the **Networking** tab, make sure **Accelerated Networking** is disabled.
10. Optionally, add a data disk to your VM. For more information, see how to add a data disk [to a Linux VM](linux/attach-disk-portal) or [to a Windows VM](windows/attach-managed-disk-portal).

Note

Adding a data disk helps you store models, data sets, and other necessary components for benchmarking.
11. Select **Review + create** to create your VM.

## Connect to your VM

Connect to your new VM using SSH, which allows you to perform further configuration. Some connection methods include:

* [Connect over SSH on Linux or macOS](linux/mac-create-ssh-keys#ssh-into-your-vm)
* [Connect over SSH on Windows](linux/ssh-from-windows#connect-to-your-vm)
* [Connect over SSH using Azure Bastion](../bastion/bastion-connect-vm-ssh-linux)

## Set up VM

Set up your new VM for HPC or AI workloads. Install the newest NVIDIA or AMD GPU driver, which maps to your VM size.

* [Install NVIDIA GPU drivers on N-series VMs running Linux](linux/n-series-driver-setup)
* [Install NVIDIA GPU drivers on N-series VMs running Windows](windows/n-series-driver-setup)
* [Install AMD GPU drivers on N-series VMs running Windows](windows/n-series-amd-driver-setup)

## Next steps

* [High performance computing VM sizes](sizes-hpc)
* [GPU optimized virtual machine sizes](sizes-gpu)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
