# Dv3 and Dsv3-series

* Article
* 11/11/2022
* 12 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The Dv3-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general purpose workloads. Memory has been expanded (from ~3.5 GiB/vCPU to 4 GiB/vCPU) while disk and network limits have been adjusted on a per core basis to align with the move to hyperthreading. The Dv3-series no longer has the high memory VM sizes of the D/Dv2-series, those have been moved to the memory optimized [Ev3 and Esv3-series](ev3-esv3-series).

Example D-series use cases include enterprise-grade applications, relational databases, in-memory caching, and analytics.

## Dv3-series

Dv3-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors with [Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/turbo-boost/turbo-boost-technology.html). The Dv3-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory, and temporary storage for most production workloads.

Data disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. To use premium storage disks, use the Dsv3 sizes. The pricing and billing meters for Dsv3 sizes are the same as Dv3-series.

Dv3-series VMs feature Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology.

[ACU](acu): 160-190  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max temp storage throughput: IOPS/Read MBps/Write MBps | Max NICs/ Expected network bandwidth |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2\_v31 | 2 | 8 | 50 | 4 | 3000/46/23 | 2/1000 |
| Standard\_D4\_v3 | 4 | 16 | 100 | 8 | 6000/93/46 | 2/2000 |
| Standard\_D8\_v3 | 8 | 32 | 200 | 16 | 12000/187/93 | 4/4000 |
| Standard\_D16\_v3 | 16 | 64 | 400 | 32 | 24000/375/187 | 8/8000 |
| Standard\_D32\_v3 | 32 | 128 | 800 | 32 | 48000/750/375 | 8/16000 |
| Standard\_D48\_v3 | 48 | 192 | 1200 | 32 | 96000/1000/500 | 8/24000 |
| Standard\_D64\_v3 | 64 | 256 | 1600 | 32 | 96000/1000/500 | 8/30000 |

1 Accelerated networking can only be applied to a single NIC.

## Dsv3-series

Dsv3-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1GHz (Skylake), Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors with [Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/turbo-boost/turbo-boost-technology.html) and use premium storage. The Dsv3-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory, and temporary storage for most production workloads.

Dsv3-series VMs feature Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology.

[ACU](acu): 160-190  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max cached and temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps (cache size in GiB) | Max burst cached and temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps2 | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps1 | Max NICs/ Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2s\_v32 | 2 | 8 | 16 | 4 | 4000/32 (50) | 4000/200 | 3200/48 | 4000/200 | 2/1000 |
| Standard\_D4s\_v3 | 4 | 16 | 32 | 8 | 8000/64 (100) | 8000/200 | 6400/96 | 8000/200 | 2/2000 |
| Standard\_D8s\_v3 | 8 | 32 | 64 | 16 | 16000/128 (200) | 16000/400 | 12800/192 | 16000/400 | 4/4000 |
| Standard\_D16s\_v3 | 16 | 64 | 128 | 32 | 32000/256 (400) | 32000/800 | 25600/384 | 32000/800 | 8/8000 |
| Standard\_D32s\_v3 | 32 | 128 | 256 | 32 | 64000/512 (800) | 64000/1600 | 51200/768 | 64000/1600 | 8/16000 |
| Standard\_D48s\_v3 | 48 | 192 | 384 | 32 | 96000/768 (1200) | 96000/2000 | 76800/1152 | 80000/2000 | 8/24000 |
| Standard\_D64s\_v3 | 64 | 256 | 512 | 32 | 128000/1024 (1600) | 128000/2000 | 80000/1200 | 80000/2000 | 8/30000 |

1 Dsv3-series VMs can [burst](disk-bursting) their disk performance and get up to their bursting max for up to 30 minutes at a time.  

2 Accelerated networking can only be applied to a single NIC.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
