# Dv4 and Dsv4-series

* Article
* 12/20/2022
* 8 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The Dv4 and Dsv4-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) or the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors in a hyper-threaded configuration, providing a better value proposition for most general-purpose workloads. It features an all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz, [Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/turbo-boost/turbo-boost-technology.html), [Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/hyper-threading/hyper-threading-technology.html) and [Intel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512)](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/avx-512-overview.html). They also support [Intel® Deep Learning Boost](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/topics/ai/deep-learning-boost.html).

Note

For frequently asked questions, see [Azure VM sizes with no local temp disk](azure-vms-no-temp-disk).

## Dv4-series

Dv4-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) or the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake). The Dv4-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory and remote storage options for most production workloads. Dv4-series VMs feature [Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/hyper-threading/hyper-threading-technology.html).

Remote Data disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. To use premium storage disks, use the Dsv4 sizes. The pricing and billing meters for Dsv4 sizes are the same as Dv4-series.

Note

After a restart, a file named *Data\_loss\_warning.txt* might be appear beside drive C (the first data disk attached from the Azure portal). In this scenario, despite the file name, no data loss has occurred on the disk. In general, the *Data\_loss\_warning.txt* file usually is copied on the temporary drive. If you're using a VM that doesn't have a temp drive, WindowsAzureGuestAgent incorrectly copies the file to the first drive letter. In v4 VMs, the first drive letter is a data disk.

A resolution for this issue was applied in the latest version (version 2.7.41491.999) of the VM agent.

[ACU](acu): 195-210  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported   

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max NICs | Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2\_v41 | 2 | 8 | Remote Storage Only | 4 | 2 | 5000 |
| Standard\_D4\_v4 | 4 | 16 | Remote Storage Only | 8 | 2 | 10000 |
| Standard\_D8\_v4 | 8 | 32 | Remote Storage Only | 16 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D16\_v4 | 16 | 64 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 8 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D32\_v4 | 32 | 128 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_D48\_v4 | 48 | 192 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_D64\_v4 | 64 | 256 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 8 | 30000 |

1 Accelerated networking can only be applied to a single NIC.

## Dsv4-series

Dsv4-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake) or the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake). The Dv4-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory and remote storage options for most production workloads. Dsv4-series VMs feature [Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/hyper-threading/hyper-threading-technology.html). Remote Data disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines.

[ACU](acu): 195-210  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps1 | Max NICs | Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2s\_v42 | 2 | 8 | Remote Storage Only | 4 | 3200/48 | 4000/200 | 2 | 5000 |
| Standard\_D4s\_v4 | 4 | 16 | Remote Storage Only | 8 | 6400/96 | 8000/200 | 2 | 10000 |
| Standard\_D8s\_v4 | 8 | 32 | Remote Storage Only | 16 | 12800/192 | 16000/400 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D16s\_v4 | 16 | 64 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 25600/384 | 32000/800 | 8 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D32s\_v4 | 32 | 128 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 51200/768 | 64000/1600 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_D48s\_v4 | 48 | 192 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 76800/1152 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_D64s\_v4 | 64 | 256 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 80000/1200 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 30000 |

1 Dsv4-series VMs can [burst](disk-bursting) their disk performance and get up to their bursting max for up to 30 minutes at a time.  

2 Accelerated networking can only be applied to a single NIC.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
