# Dasv5 and Dadsv5-series

* Article
* 10/26/2022
* 4 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The Dasv5-series and Dadsv5-series utilize AMD's 3rd Generation EPYCTM 7763v processor in a multi-threaded configuration with up to 256 MB L3 cache, increasing customer options for running their general purpose workloads. These virtual machines offer a combination of vCPUs and memory to meet the requirements associated with most enterprise workloads, such as small-to-medium databases, low-to-medium traffic web servers, application servers and more.

## Dasv5-series

Dasv5-series VMs utilize AMD's 3rd Generation EPYCTM 7763v processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.5GHz. The Dasv5-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU and memory for most production workloads. The new VMs with no local disk provide a better value proposition for workloads that do not require local temp disk.

Note

For frequently asked questions, see [Azure VM sizes with no local temp disk](azure-vms-no-temp-disk).

Dasv5-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. [See pricing for disks](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/managed-disks/).

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported   

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported   

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported   

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2   

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported   

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps1 | Max NICs | Max network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2as\_v5 | 2 | 8 | Remote Storage Only | 4 | 3750/82 | 10000/600 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D4as\_v5 | 4 | 16 | Remote Storage Only | 8 | 6400/144 | 20000/600 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D8as\_v5 | 8 | 32 | Remote Storage Only | 16 | 12800/200 | 20000/600 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D16as\_v5 | 16 | 64 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 25600/384 | 40000/800 | 8 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D32as\_v5 | 32 | 128 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 51200/768 | 80000/1600 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_D48as\_v5 | 48 | 192 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 76800/1152 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_D64as\_v5 | 64 | 256 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 80000/1200 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 32000 |
| Standard\_D96as\_v5 | 96 | 384 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 80000/1600 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 40000 |

1 Dasv5-series VMs can [burst](disk-bursting) their disk performance and get up to their bursting max for up to 30 minutes at a time.

## Dadsv5-series

Dadsv5-series utilize AMD's 3rd Generation EPYCTM 7763v processors that can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.5GHz. The Dadsv5-series sizes offer a combination of vCPU, memory and temporary storage for most production workloads. The new VMs have 50% larger local storage, as well as better local disk IOPS for both read and write compared to the [Dav4/Dasv4](dav4-dasv4-series) sizes with [Gen2](generation-2) VMs.

Dadsv5-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. [See pricing for disks](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/managed-disks/).

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported   

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported   

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported   

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2   

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported   

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps1 | Max NICs | Max network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2ads\_v5 | 2 | 8 | 75 | 4 | 9000 / 125 | 3750/82 | 10000/600 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D4ads\_v5 | 4 | 16 | 150 | 8 | 19000 / 250 | 6400/144 | 20000/600 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D8ads\_v5 | 8 | 32 | 300 | 16 | 38000 / 500 | 12800/200 | 20000/600 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D16ads\_v5 | 16 | 64 | 600 | 32 | 75000 / 1000 | 25600/384 | 40000/800 | 8 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D32ads\_v5 | 32 | 128 | 1200 | 32 | 150000 / 2000 | 51200/768 | 80000/1000 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_D48ads\_v5 | 48 | 192 | 1800 | 32 | 225000 / 3000 | 76800/1152 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_D64ads\_v5 | 64 | 256 | 2400 | 32 | 300000 / 4000 | 80000/1200 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 32000 |
| Standard\_D96ads\_v5 | 96 | 384 | 3600 | 32 | 450000 / 4000 | 80000/1600 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 40000 |

\* These IOPs values can be achieved by using Gen2 VMs.  

1 Dadsv5-series VMs can [burst](disk-bursting) their disk performance and get up to their bursting max for up to 30 minutes at a time.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
