# Dplsv5 and Dpldsv5-series

* Article
* 09/06/2022
* 2 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The Dplsv5-series and Dpldsv5-series virtual machines are based on the Arm architecture, delivering outstanding price-performance for general-purpose workloads. These virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer a range of vCPU sizes, up to 2 GiB of memory per vCPU, and temporary storage options able to meet the requirements of most non-memory-intensive and scale-out workloads such as microservices, small databases, caches, gaming servers, and more.

## Dplsv5-series

Dplsv5-series virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer up to 64 vCPU and 128 GiB of RAM and offer a better value proposition for non-memory-intensive scale-out workloads. Dplsv5-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types with no local-SSD support. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. [See pricing for disks](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/managed-disks/).

* [Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported
* [Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported
* [Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported
* [Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported
* [VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 2
* [Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported
* [Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not supported
* [Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not supported

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs | Max network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2pls\_v5 | 2 | 4 | Remote Storage Only | 4 | 3750/85 | 10000/1200 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D4pls\_v5 | 4 | 8 | Remote Storage Only | 8 | 6400/145 | 20000/1200 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D8pls\_v5 | 8 | 16 | Remote Storage Only | 16 | 12800/290 | 20000/1200 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D16pls\_v5 | 16 | 32 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 25600/600 | 40000/1200 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D32pls\_v5 | 32 | 64 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 51200/865 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_D48pls\_v5 | 48 | 96 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 76800/1315 | 80000/3000 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_D64pls\_v5 | 64 | 128 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 80000/1735 | 80000/3000 | 8 | 40000 |

Note

Accelerated networking is required and turned on by default on all Dplsv5 machines.

## Dpldsv5-series

Dpldsv5-series virtual machines feature the Ampere® Altra® Arm-based processor operating at 3.0 GHz, which provides an entire physical core for each virtual machine vCPU. These virtual machines offer up to 64 vCPU, 128 GiB of RAM, and fast local SSD storage up to 2,400 GiB built for scale-out, non-memory-intensive workloads that require local disk. Dpldsv5-series virtual machines support Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. You can also attach Ultra Disk storage based on its regional availability. Disk storage is billed separately from virtual machines. [See pricing for disks](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/managed-disks/).

* [Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported
* [Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported
* [Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported
* [Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported
* [VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 2
* [Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported
* [Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported
* [Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not supported

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs | Max network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D2plds\_v5 | 2 | 4 | 75 | 4 | 9375/125 | 3750/85 | 10000/1200 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D4plds\_v5 | 4 | 8 | 150 | 8 | 19000/250 | 6400/145 | 20000/1200 | 2 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D8plds\_v5 | 8 | 16 | 300 | 16 | 38000/500 | 12800/290 | 20000/1200 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D16plds\_v5 | 16 | 32 | 600 | 32 | 75000/1000 | 25600/600 | 40000/1200 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_D32plds\_v5 | 32 | 64 | 1200 | 32 | 150000/2000 | 51200/865 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_D48plds\_v5 | 48 | 96 | 1800 | 32 | 225000/3000 | 76800/1315 | 80000/3000 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_D64plds\_v5 | 64 | 128 | 2400 | 32 | 300000/4000 | 80000/1735 | 80000/3000 | 8 | 40000 |

Note

Accelerated networking is required and turned on by default on all Dplsv5 machines.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator: [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
