# ECasv5 and ECadsv5-series

* Article
* 03/07/2023
* 4 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs

The ECasv5-series and ECadsv5-series are [confidential VMs](../confidential-computing/confidential-vm-overview) for use in Confidential Computing.

These confidential VMs use AMD's third-Generation EPYCTM 7763v processor in a multi-threaded configuration with up to 256 MB L3 cache. This processor can achieve a boosted maximum frequency of 3.5 GHz. Both series offer Secure Encrypted Virtualization-Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP). SEV-SNP provides hardware-isolated VMs that protect data from other VMs, the hypervisor, and host management code. Confidential VMs offer hardware-based VM memory encryption. These series also offer OS disk pre-encryption before VM provisioning with different key management solutions.

These VM series also offer a combination of vCPUs and memory to meet the requirements of most memory-intensive enterprise applications.

## ECasv5-series

ECasv5-series VMs offer a combination of vCPU and memory for memory-intensive enterprise applications. These VMs with no local disk provide a better value proposition for workloads where you don't need a local temp disk. For more information, see the [FAQ for Azure VM sizes with no local temporary disk](azure-vms-no-temp-disk).

This series supports Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. Billing for disk storage and VMs is separate. To estimate your costs, use the [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/).

Note

There are some [pricing differences based on your encryption settings](../confidential-computing/confidential-vm-overview#encryption-pricing-differences) for confidential VMs.

### ECasv5-series feature support

*Supported* features in ECasv5-series VMs:

* [Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance)
* [Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance)
* [VM Generation 2](generation-2)

*Unsupported* features in ECasv5-series VMs:

* [Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates)
* [Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates)
* [Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli)
* [Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks)
* [Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization)

### ECasv5-series products

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_EC2as\_v5 | 2 | 16 | Remote Storage Only | 4 | 3750/82 | 2 |
| Standard\_EC4as\_v5 | 4 | 32 | Remote Storage Only | 8 | 6400/144 | 2 |
| Standard\_EC8as\_v5 | 8 | 64 | Remote Storage Only | 16 | 12800/200 | 4 |
| Standard\_EC16as\_v5 | 16 | 128 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 25600/384 | 4 |
| Standard\_EC20as\_v5 | 20 | 160 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 32000/480 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC32as\_v5 | 32 | 256 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 51200/768 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC48as\_v5 | 48 | 384 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 76800/1152 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC64as\_v5 | 64 | 512 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 80000/1200 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC96as\_v5 | 96 | 672 | Remote Storage Only | 32 | 80000/1600 | 8 |

## ECadsv5-series

ECadsv5-series VMs offer a combination of vCPU, memory, and temporary storage for memory-intensive enterprise applications. These VMs offer local storage.

This series supports Standard SSD, Standard HDD, and Premium SSD disk types. Billing for disk storage and VMs is separate. To estimate your costs, use the [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/).

Note

There are some [pricing differences based on your encryption settings](../confidential-computing/confidential-vm-overview#encryption-pricing-differences) for confidential VMs.

### ECadsv5-series feature support

*Supported* features in DCasv5-series VMs:

* [Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance)
* [Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance)
* [VM Generation 2](generation-2)
* [Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks)

*Unsupported* features in DCasv5-series VMs:

* [Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates)
* [Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates)
* [Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli)

### ECadsv5-series products

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_EC2ads\_v5 | 2 | 16 | 75 | 4 | 9000 / 125 | 3750/82 | 2 |
| Standard\_EC4ads\_v5 | 4 | 32 | 150 | 8 | 19000 / 250 | 6400/144 | 2 |
| Standard\_EC8ads\_v5 | 8 | 64 | 300 | 16 | 38000 / 500 | 12800/200 | 4 |
| Standard\_EC16ads\_v5 | 16 | 128 | 600 | 32 | 75000 / 1000 | 25600/384 | 4 |
| Standard\_EC20ads\_v5 | 20 | 160 | 750 | 32 | 94000 / 1250 | 32000/480 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC32ads\_v5 | 32 | 256 | 1200 | 32 | 150000 / 2000 | 51200/768 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC48ads\_v5 | 48 | 384 | 1800 | 32 | 225000 / 3000 | 76800/1152 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC64ads\_v5 | 64 | 512 | 2400 | 32 | 300000 / 4000 | 80000/1200 | 8 |
| Standard\_EC96ads\_v5 | 96 | 672 | 3600 | 32 | 450000 / 4000 | 80000/1600 | 8 |

Note

To achieve these IOPs, use [Gen2 VMs](generation-2).

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Next steps

[Confidential virtual machine options on AMD processors](../confidential-computing/virtual-machine-solutions-amd)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
