# NCv2-series

* Article
* 06/09/2023
* 15 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

Important

NCv2 series Azure virtual machines (VMs) will be retired on August 31st, 2023. For more information, see the [NCv2 retirement information](ncv2-series-retirement). For how to migrate your workloads to other VM sizes, see the [GPU compute migration guide](n-series-migration).

This retirement announcement doesn't apply to NCv3, NCasT4v3 and NC A100 v4 series VMs.

NCv2-series VMs are powered by NVIDIA Tesla P100 GPUs. These GPUs can provide more than 2x the computational performance of the NC-series. Customers can take advantage of these updated GPUs for traditional HPC workloads such as reservoir modeling, DNA sequencing, protein analysis, Monte Carlo simulations, and others. In addition to the GPUs, the NCv2-series VMs are also powered by Intel Xeon E5-2690 v4 (Broadwell) CPUs.

The NC24rs v2 configuration provides a low latency, high-throughput network interface optimized for tightly coupled parallel computing workloads.

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/ultra-disk-storage-for-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/2189312) about availability, usage and performance)   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Not Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

Nvidia NVLink Interconnect: Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

Important

For this VM series, the vCPU (core) quota in your subscription is initially set to 0 in each region. [Request a vCPU quota increase](../azure-portal/supportability/regional-quota-requests) for this series in an [available region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/services/).

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | GPU | GPU memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_NC6s\_v2 | 6 | 112 | 736 | 1 | 16 | 12 | 20000/200 | 4 |
| Standard\_NC12s\_v2 | 12 | 224 | 1474 | 2 | 32 | 24 | 40000/400 | 8 |
| Standard\_NC24s\_v2 | 24 | 448 | 2948 | 4 | 64 | 32 | 80000/800 | 8 |
| Standard\_NC24rs\_v2\* | 24 | 448 | 2948 | 4 | 64 | 32 | 80000/800 | 8 |

One GPU = one P100 card.

\*RDMA capable

## Supported operating systems and drivers

To take advantage of the GPU capabilities of Azure N-series VMs, NVIDIA GPU drivers must be installed.

The [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-windows) installs appropriate NVIDIA CUDA or GRID drivers on an N-series VM. Install or manage the extension using the Azure portal or tools such as Azure PowerShell or Azure Resource Manager templates. See the [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension documentation](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-windows) for supported operating systems and deployment steps. For general information about VM extensions, see [Azure virtual machine extensions and features](extensions/overview).

If you choose to install NVIDIA GPU drivers manually, see [N-series GPU driver setup for Windows](windows/n-series-driver-setup) or [N-series GPU driver setup for Linux](linux/n-series-driver-setup) for supported operating systems, drivers, installation, and verification steps.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
