# NC A100 v4-series

* Article
* 06/05/2023
* 4 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The NC A100 v4 series virtual machine (VM) is a new addition to the Azure GPU family. You can use this series for real-world Azure Applied AI training and batch inference workloads.

The NC A100 v4 series is powered by NVIDIA A100 PCIe GPU and 3rd-generation AMD EPYC™ 7V13 (Milan) processors. The VMs feature up to 4 NVIDIA A100 PCIe GPUs with 80GB memory each, up to 96 non-multithreaded AMD EPYC Milan processor cores and 880 GiB of system memory.
These VMs are ideal for real-world Applied AI workloads, such as:

* GPU-accelerated analytics and databases
* Batch inferencing with heavy pre- and post-processing
* Autonomy model training
* Oil and gas reservoir simulation
* Machine learning (ML) development
* Video processing
* AI/ML web services

## Supported features

To get started with NC A100 v4 VMs, refer to [HPC Workload Configuration and Optimization](configure) for steps including driver and network configuration.

Due to increased GPU memory I/O footprint, the NC A100 v4 requires the use of [Generation 2 VMs](generation-2) and marketplace images. While the [Azure HPC images](configure) are strongly recommended, Azure HPC Ubuntu 18.04, 20.04 and Azure HPC CentOS 7.9, CentOS 8.4, RHEL 7.9, RHEL 8.5, Windows Service 2019, and Windows Service 2022 images are supported.

Note: The Ubuntu-HPC 18.04-ncv4 image is only valid during preview and deprecated on 7/29/2022. All changes have been merged into standard Ubuntu-HPC 18.04 image. Please follow instruction [Azure HPC images](configure) for configuration.

* [Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported
* [Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported
* [Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Not Supported
* [Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported
* [Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported
* [VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 2
* [Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported
* [Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported
* InfiniBand: Not Supported
* Nvidia NVLink Interconnect: Supported
* [Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported

| Size | vCPU | Memory (GiB) | Temp Disk (GiB) | NVMe Disks | GPU | GPU Memory (GiB) | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput (IOPS / MBps) | Max NICs/network bandwidth (MBps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_NC24ads\_A100\_v4 | 24 | 220 | 64 | 960 GB | 1 | 80 | 12 | 30000/1000 | 2/20,000 |
| Standard\_NC48ads\_A100\_v4 | 48 | 440 | 128 | 2x960 GB | 2 | 160 | 24 | 60000/2000 | 4/40,000 |
| Standard\_NC96ads\_A100\_v4 | 96 | 880 | 256 | 4x960 GB | 4 | 320 | 32 | 120000/4000 | 8/80,000 |

1 GPU = one A100 card

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

You can [use the pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/) to estimate your Azure VMs costs.

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next step

* [Compare compute performance across Azure SKUs with Azure compute units (ACU)](acu)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
