# Updated NDv2-series

* Article
* 12/20/2022
* 17 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The NDv2-series virtual machine is a new addition to the GPU family designed for the needs of the most demanding GPU-accelerated AI, machine learning, simulation, and HPC workloads.

NDv2 is powered by 8 NVIDIA Tesla V100 NVLINK-connected GPUs, each with 32 GB of GPU memory. Each NDv2 VM also has 40 non-HyperThreaded Intel Xeon Platinum 8168 (Skylake) cores and 672 GiB of system memory.

NDv2 instances provide excellent performance for HPC and AI workloads utilizing CUDA GPU-optimized computation kernels, and the many AI, ML, and analytics tools that support GPU acceleration 'out-of-box,' such as TensorFlow, Pytorch, Caffe, RAPIDS, and other frameworks.

Critically, the NDv2 is built for both computationally intense scale-up (harnessing 8 GPUs per VM) and scale-out (harnessing multiple VMs working together) workloads. The NDv2 series now supports 100-Gigabit InfiniBand EDR backend networking, similar to that available on the HB series of HPC VM, to allow high-performance clustering for parallel scenarios including distributed training for AI and ML. This backend network supports all major InfiniBand protocols, including those employed by NVIDIA’s NCCL2 libraries, allowing for seamless clustering of GPUs.

Important

When [enabling InfiniBand](workloads/hpc/enable-infiniband) on the ND40rs\_v2 VM, please use the 4.7-1.0.0.1 Mellanox OFED driver.

Due to increased GPU memory, the new ND40rs\_v2 VM requires the use of [Generation 2 VMs](generation-2) and marketplace images.

Please note: The ND40s\_v2 featuring 16 GB of per-GPU memory is no longer available for preview and has been superceded by the updated ND40rs\_v2.

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/ultra-disk-storage-for-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/2189312) about availability, usage and performance)   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

InfiniBand: Supported  

Nvidia NVLink Interconnect: Supported  

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp Storage (SSD): GiB | GPU | GPU Memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS / MBps | Max network bandwidth | Max NICs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_ND40rs\_v2 | 40 | 672 | 2948 | 8 V100 32 GB (NVLink) | 32 | 32 | 80000 / 800 | 24000 Mbps | 8 |

## Supported operating systems and drivers

To take advantage of the GPU capabilities of Azure N-series VMs, NVIDIA GPU drivers must be installed.

The [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-linux) installs appropriate NVIDIA CUDA or GRID drivers on an N-series VM. Install or manage the extension using the Azure portal or tools such as Azure PowerShell or Azure Resource Manager templates. For general information about VM extensions, see [Azure virtual machine extensions and features](extensions/overview).

If you choose to install NVIDIA GPU drivers manually, see [N-series GPU driver setup for Linux](linux/n-series-driver-setup).

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
