# High-performance computing on InfiniBand enabled HB-series and N-series VMs

* Article
* 03/14/2023
* 2 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

Azure's InfiniBand enabled H-series and N-series VMs are designed to deliver leadership-class performance, Message Passing Interface (MPI) scalability, and cost efficiency for a variety of real-world HPC and AI workloads. These high-performance computing (HPC) optimized VMs are used to solve some of the most computationally intensive problems in science and engineering such as: fluid dynamics, earth modeling, weather simulations, etc.

These articles describe how to get started on the InfiniBand-enabled H-series and N-series VMs on Azure as well as optimal configuration of the HPC and AI workloads on the VMs for scalability.

## Features and capabilities

The InfiniBand enabled HB-series and N-series VMs are designed to provide the best HPC performance, MPI scalability, and cost efficiency for HPC workloads. See [HB-series](sizes-hpc) and [N-series](sizes-gpu) VMs to learn more about the features and capabilities of the VMs.

### RDMA and InfiniBand

[RDMA capable](sizes-hpc#rdma-capable-instances) [HB-series](sizes-hpc) and [N-series](sizes-gpu) VMs communicate over the low latency and high bandwidth InfiniBand network. The RDMA capability over such an interconnect is critical to boost the scalability and performance of distributed-node HPC and AI workloads. The InfiniBand enabled H-series and N-series VMs are connected in a non-blocking fat tree with a low-diameter design for optimized and consistent RDMA performance.
See [Enable InfiniBand](extensions/enable-infiniband) to learn more about setting up InfiniBand on the InfiniBand enabled VMs.

### Message passing interface

The SR-IOV enabled HB-series and N-series support almost all MPI libraries and versions. Some of the most commonly used MPI libraries are: Intel MPI, OpenMPI, HPC-X, MVAPICH2, MPICH, Platform MPI. All remote direct memory access (RDMA) verbs are supported.
See [Set up MPI](setup-mpi) to learn more about installing various supported MPI libraries and their optimal configuration.

## Get started

The first step is to select the [HB-series](sizes-hpc) and [N-series](sizes-gpu) VM type optimal for the workload based on the VM specifications and [RDMA capability](sizes-hpc#rdma-capable-instances).
Second, configure the VM by enabling InfiniBand. There are various methods to doing this including using optimized VM images with drivers baked-in; see [Optimization for Linux](configure) and [Enable InfiniBand](extensions/enable-infiniband) for details.
Third, for distributed node workloads, choosing and configuring MPI appropriately is critical. See [Set up MPI](setup-mpi) for details.
Fourth, for performance and scalability, optimally configure the workloads by following guidance specific to the VM family, such as for [HBv3-series overview](hbv3-series-overview) and [HC-series overview](hc-series-overview).

## Next steps

* Learn about [configuring and optimizing](configure) the InfiniBand enabled [HB-series](sizes-hpc) and [N-series](sizes-gpu) VMs.
* Review the [HBv3-series overview](hb-series-overview) and [HC-series overview](hc-series-overview) to learn about optimally configuring workloads for performance and scalability.
* Read about the latest announcements, HPC workload examples, and performance results at the [Azure Compute Tech Community Blogs](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/bg-p/AzureCompute).
* Test your knowledge with a [learning module on optimizing HPC applications on Azure](/en-us/training/modules/optimize-tightly-coupled-hpc-apps/).
* For a higher level architectural view of running HPC workloads, see [High Performance Computing (HPC) on Azure](/en-us/azure/architecture/topics/high-performance-computing/).

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
