# Azure VM sizes with no local temporary disk

* FAQ
* 4 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

Tip

Try the **[Virtual Machine selector tool](https://aka.ms/vm-selector)** to find other sizes that best fit your workload.

This article provides answers to frequently asked questions (FAQ) about Azure VM sizes that don't have a local temporary disk (that is, no local temp disk).

## What does no local temp disk mean?

Traditionally, we have had VM sizes (for example, Standard\_D2s\_v3, Standard\_E48\_v3) that include a small local disk (that is, a D: Drive). With the VM series such as [Dasv5](dasv5-dadsv5-series) and [Easv5](easv5-eadsv5-series) that small local disk no longer exists. However, you can still attach Standard HDD, Premium SSD or Ultra SSD to use as remote storage.

## What if I still want a local temp disk?

If your workload requires a local temporary disk, we still offer sizes such as the [Dadsv5](dasv5-dadsv5-series).

Note

Local temporary disk isn't persistent; to ensure your data is persistent, please use Standard HDD, Premium SSD or Ultra SSD options.

## Can I resize a VM size that has a local temp disk to a VM size with no local temp disk?

No. The only combinations allowed for resizing are:

1. VM (with local temp disk) -> VM (with local temp disk); and
2. VM (with no local temp disk) -> VM (with no local temp disk).

If interested in a work around, please see next question.

Note

If an image depends on the resource disk, or a pagefile or swapfile exists on the local temp disk, the diskless images won't work—instead, use the ‘with disk’ alternative.

## How do I migrate from a VM size with local temp disk to a VM size with no local temp disk?

You can migrate by following these steps:

1. Connect to your Virtual Machine that has a local temporary disk (for example, a D: Drive) as a local admin.
2. Follow the guidelines on the "Temporarily move pagefile.sys to C drive" section of [Use the D: drive as a data drive on a Windows VM](windows/change-drive-letter) to move the page file from the local temporary disk (D: drive) to the C: drive.

Note

Follow the guidelines on the "Temporarily move pagefile.sys to C drive" section of Use the D: drive as a data drive on a Windows VM to move page file from the local temporary disk (D: drive) to C: drive. **Deviation from the steps outlined will lead to the error message - "Unable to resize the VM since changing from resource disk to non-resource disk VM size and vice-versa is not allowed.**
3. Take a snapshot of the VM by following the steps outlined in [Create a snapshot using the portal or Azure CLI](linux/snapshot-copy-managed-disk).
4. Use snapshot to create a new diskless VM (such as, Dv5, Dsv5, Dasv5, Ev5, Esv5, Easv5 series) by following the steps outlined in [Create a virtual machine from a snapshot with CLI](/en-us/previous-versions/azure/virtual-machines/scripts/virtual-machines-linux-cli-sample-create-vm-from-snapshot).

## Do these VM sizes support both Linux and Windows Operating Systems (OS)?

Yes.

## Will this break my custom scripts, custom images or OS images that have scratch files or page files on a local temp disk?

If the custom OS image points to the local temp disk, the image might not work correctly with this diskless size.

## Next steps

In this document, you learned more about the most frequent questions related to Azure VMs with no local temp disk. For more information about these VM sizes, see the following articles:

* [Specifications for Dv5 and Dsv5-series](dv5-dsv5-series)
* [Specifications for Dasv5 and Dadsv5-series](dasv5-dadsv5-series)
* [Specifications for Ev5 and Esv5-series](ev5-esv5-series)
* [Specifications for Easv5 and Eadsv5-series](easv5-eadsv5-series)

 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","mainEntity":[{"@type":"Question","name":"What does no local temp disk mean? \n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eTraditionally, we have had VM sizes (for example, Standard\_D2s\_v3, Standard\_E48\_v3) that include a small local disk (that is, a D: Drive). With the VM series such as \u003ca href=\"dasv5-dadsv5-series\"\u003eDasv5\u003c/a\u003e and \u003ca href=\"easv5-eadsv5-series\"\u003eEasv5\u003c/a\u003e that small local disk no longer exists. However, you can still attach Standard HDD, Premium SSD or Ultra SSD to use as remote storage.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What if I still want a local temp disk?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eIf your workload requires a local temporary disk, we still offer sizes such as the \u003ca href=\"dasv5-dadsv5-series\"\u003eDadsv5\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cdiv class=\"NOTE\"\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eNote\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eLocal temporary disk isn't persistent; to ensure your data is persistent, please use Standard HDD, Premium SSD or Ultra SSD options.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/div\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I resize a VM size that has a local temp disk to a VM size with no local temp disk? \n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eNo. The only combinations allowed for resizing are:\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003col\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eVM (with local temp disk) -\u0026gt; VM (with local temp disk); and\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eVM (with no local temp disk) -\u0026gt; VM (with no local temp disk).\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003c/ol\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eIf interested in a work around, please see next question.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cdiv class=\"NOTE\"\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eNote\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eIf an image depends on the resource disk, or a pagefile or swapfile exists on the local temp disk, the diskless images won't work—instead, use the ‘with disk’ alternative.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/div\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"How do I migrate from a VM size with local temp disk to a VM size with no local temp disk? \n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYou can migrate by following these steps:\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003col\u003e\n\u003cli\u003e\u003cp\u003eConnect to your Virtual Machine that has a local temporary disk (for example, a D: Drive) as a local admin.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003e\u003cp\u003eFollow the guidelines on the \u0026quot;Temporarily move pagefile.sys to C drive\u0026quot; section of \u003ca href=\"windows/change-drive-letter\"\u003eUse the D: drive as a data drive on a Windows VM\u003c/a\u003e to move the page file from the local temporary disk (D: drive) to the C: drive.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cdiv class=\"NOTE\"\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eNote\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eFollow the guidelines on the \u0026quot;Temporarily move pagefile.sys to C drive\u0026quot; section of Use the D: drive as a data drive on a Windows VM to move page file from the local temporary disk (D: drive) to C: drive. \u003cstrong\u003eDeviation from the steps outlined will lead to the error message - \u0026quot;Unable to resize the VM since changing from resource disk to non-resource disk VM size and vice-versa is not allowed.\u003c/strong\u003e\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/div\u003e\n\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003e\u003cp\u003eTake a snapshot of the VM by following the steps outlined in \u003ca href=\"linux/snapshot-copy-managed-disk\"\u003eCreate a snapshot using the portal or Azure CLI\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003e\u003cp\u003eUse snapshot to create a new diskless VM (such as, Dv5, Dsv5, Dasv5, Ev5, Esv5, Easv5 series) by following the steps outlined in \u003ca href=\"/previous-versions/azure/virtual-machines/scripts/virtual-machines-linux-cli-sample-create-vm-from-snapshot\"\u003eCreate a virtual machine from a snapshot with CLI\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003c/ol\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Do these VM sizes support both Linux and Windows Operating Systems (OS)?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYes.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Will this break my custom scripts, custom images or OS images that have scratch files or page files on a local temp disk?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eIf the custom OS image points to the local temp disk, the image might not work correctly with this diskless size.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}}]}

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/79b1327d-d925-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f06a4)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
