# Use cloud-init to add a user to a Linux VM in Azure

* Article
* 03/29/2023
* 8 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets

This article shows you how to use [cloud-init](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io) to add a user on a virtual machine (VM) or virtual machine scale sets (VMSS) at provisioning time in Azure. This cloud-init script runs on first boot once the resources have been provisioned by Azure. For more information about how cloud-init works natively in Azure and the supported Linux distros, see [cloud-init overview](using-cloud-init).

## Add a user to a VM with cloud-init

One of the first tasks on any new Linux VM is to add an additional user for yourself to avoid the use of *root*. SSH keys are best practice for security and usability. Keys are added to the *~/.ssh/authorized\_keys* file with this cloud-init script.

To add a user to a Linux VM, create a file in your current shell named *cloud\_init\_add\_user.txt* and paste the following configuration. For this example, create the file in the Cloud Shell not on your local machine. You can use any editor you wish. Make sure that the whole cloud-init file is copied correctly, especially the first line. You need to provide your own public key (such as the contents of *~/.ssh/id\_rsa.pub*) for the value of `ssh-authorized-keys:` - it has been shortened here to simplify the example.

```
#cloud-config
users:
  - default
  - name: myadminuser
    groups: sudo
    shell: /bin/bash
    sudo: ['ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL']
    ssh-authorized-keys:
      - ssh-rsa AAAAB3<snip>

```

Note

The #cloud-config file includes the `- default` parameter included. This will append the user, to the existing admin user created during provisioning. If you create a user without the `- default` parameter - the auto generated admin user created by the Azure platform would be overwritten.

Before deploying this image, you need to create a resource group with the [az group create](/en-us/cli/azure/group) command. An Azure resource group is a logical container into which Azure resources are deployed and managed. The following example creates a resource group named *myResourceGroup* in the *eastus* location.

```
az group create --name myResourceGroup --location eastus

```

Now, create a VM with [az vm create](/en-us/cli/azure/vm) and specify the cloud-init file with `--custom-data cloud_init_add_user.txt` as follows:

```
az vm create \
  --resource-group myResourceGroup \
  --name vmName \
  --image imageCIURN \
  --custom-data cloud_init_add_user.txt \
  --generate-ssh-keys 

```

Note

Replace **myResourceGroup**, **vmName**, and **imageCIURN** values accordingly. Make sure an image with Cloud-init is chosen.

SSH to the public IP address of your VM shown in the output from the preceding command. Enter your own **user** and **publicIpAddress** as follows:

```
ssh <user>@<publicIpAddress>

```

To confirm your user was added to the VM and the specified groups, view the contents of the */etc/group* file as follows:

```
sudo cat /etc/group

```

The following example output shows the user from the *cloud\_init\_add\_user.txt* file has been added to the VM and the appropriate group:

```
root:x:0:
<snip />
sudo:x:27:myadminuser
<snip />
myadminuser:x:1000:

```

## Next steps

For additional cloud-init examples of configuration changes, see the following:

* [Add an additional Linux user to a VM](cloudinit-add-user)
* [Run a package manager to update existing packages on first boot](cloudinit-update-vm)
* [Change VM local hostname](cloudinit-update-vm-hostname)
* [Install an application package, update configuration files and inject keys](tutorial-automate-vm-deployment)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
