# Attach a managed data disk to a Windows VM by using the Azure portal

* Article
* 08/10/2022
* 8 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets

This article shows you how to attach a new managed data disk to a Windows virtual machine (VM) by using the Azure portal. The size of the VM determines how many data disks you can attach. For more information, see [Sizes for virtual machines](../sizes).

## Add a data disk

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. Search for and select **Virtual machines**.
3. Select a virtual machine from the list.
4. On the **Virtual machine** pane, select **Disks**.
5. On the **Disks** pane, select **Create and attach a new disk**.
6. In the drop-downs for the new disk, make the selections you want, and name the disk.
7. Select **Save** to create and attach the new data disk to the VM.

## Initialize a new data disk

1. Connect to the VM.
2. Select the Windows **Start** menu inside the running VM and enter **diskmgmt.msc** in the search box. The **Disk Management** console opens.
3. Disk Management recognizes that you have a new, uninitialized disk and the **Initialize Disk** window appears.
4. Verify the new disk is selected and then select **OK** to initialize it.
5. The new disk appears as **unallocated**. Right-click anywhere on the disk and select **New simple volume**. The **New Simple Volume Wizard** window opens.
6. Proceed through the wizard, keeping all of the defaults, and when you're done select **Finish**.
7. Close **Disk Management**.
8. A pop-up window appears notifying you that you need to format the new disk before you can use it. Select **Format disk**.
9. In the **Format new disk** window, check the settings, and then select **Start**.
10. A warning appears notifying you that formatting the disks erases all of the data. Select **OK**.
11. When the formatting is complete, select **OK**.

## Next steps

* You can also [attach a data disk by using PowerShell](attach-disk-ps).
* If your application needs to use the *D:* drive to store data, you can [change the drive letter of the Windows temporary disk](change-drive-letter).

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
