# How to detach a data disk from a Windows virtual machine

* Article
* 03/08/2023
* 13 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets

When you no longer need a data disk that's attached to a virtual machine, you can easily detach it. This removes the disk from the virtual machine, but doesn't remove it from storage.

Warning

If you detach a disk it is not automatically deleted. If you have subscribed to Premium storage, you will continue to incur storage charges for the disk. For more information, see [Pricing and Billing when using Premium Storage](../disks-types#billing).

If you want to use the existing data on the disk again, you can reattach it to the same virtual machine, or another one.

## Detach a data disk using PowerShell

You can *hot* remove a data disk using PowerShell, but make sure nothing is actively using the disk before detaching it from the VM.

In this example, we remove the disk named **myDisk** from the VM **myVM** in the **myResourceGroup** resource group. First you remove the disk using the [Remove-AzVMDataDisk](/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/remove-azvmdatadisk) cmdlet. Then, you update the state of the virtual machine, using the [Update-AzVM](/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/update-azvm) cmdlet, to complete the process of removing the data disk.

```
$VirtualMachine = Get-AzVM `
   -ResourceGroupName "myResourceGroup" `
   -Name "myVM"
Remove-AzVMDataDisk `
   -VM $VirtualMachine `
   -Name "myDisk"
Update-AzVM `
   -ResourceGroupName "myResourceGroup" `
   -VM $VirtualMachine

```

The disk stays in storage but is no longer attached to a virtual machine.

### Lower latency

In select regions, the disk detach latency has been reduced, so you'll see an improvement of up to 15%. This is useful if you have planned/unplanned failovers between VMs, you're scaling your workload, or are running a high scale stateful workload such as Azure Kubernetes Service. However, this improvement is limited to the explicit disk detach command, `Remove-AzVMDataDisk`. You won't see the performance improvement if you call a command that may implicitly perform a detach, like `Update-AzVM`. You don't need to take any action other than calling the explicit detach command to see this improvement.

Lower latency is currently available in every public region except for:

* Canada Central
* Central US
* East US
* East US 2
* South Central US
* West US 2
* Germany North
* Jio India West
* North Europe
* West Europe

## Detach a data disk using the portal

You can *hot* remove a data disk, but make sure nothing is actively using the disk before detaching it from the VM.

1. In the left menu, select **Virtual Machines**.
2. Select the virtual machine that has the data disk you want to detach.
3. Under **Settings**, select **Disks**.
4. In the **Disks** pane, to the far right of the data disk that you would like to detach, select the **X** button to detach.
5. Select **Save** on the top of the page to save your changes.

The disk stays in storage but is no longer attached to a virtual machine. The disk isn't deleted.

## Next steps

If you want to reuse the data disk, you can just [attach it to another VM](attach-managed-disk-portal).

If you want to delete the disk, so that you no longer incur storage costs, see [Find and delete unattached Azure managed and unmanaged disks - Azure portal](../disks-find-unattached-portal).

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
