# Change the OS disk used by an Azure VM using the Azure CLI

* Article
* 08/18/2022
* 6 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets

If you have an existing VM, but you want to swap the disk for a backup disk or another OS disk, you can use the Azure CLI to swap the OS disks. You don't have to delete and recreate the VM. You can even use a managed disk in another resource group, as long as it isn't already in use.

The VM does not need to be stopped\deallocated. The resource ID of the managed disk can be replaced with the resource ID of a different managed disk.

Make sure that the VM size and storage type are compatible with the disk you want to attach. For example, if the disk you want to use is in Premium Storage, then the VM needs to be capable of Premium Storage (like a DS-series size).

This article requires Azure CLI version 2.0.25 or greater. Run `az --version` to find the version. If you need to install or upgrade, see [Install Azure CLI](/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

Use [az disk list](/en-us/cli/azure/disk) to get a list of the disks in your resource group.

```
az disk list \
   -g myResourceGroupDisk \
   --query '[*].{diskId:id}' \
   --output table

```

(Optional) Use [az vm stop](/en-us/cli/azure/vm) to stop\deallocate the VM before swapping the disks.

```
az vm stop \
   -n myVM \
   -g myResourceGroup

```

Use [az vm update](/en-us/cli/azure/vm#az-vm-update) with the full resource ID of the new disk for the `--osdisk` parameter

```
az vm update \
   -g myResourceGroup \
   -n myVM \
   --os-disk /subscriptions/<subscription ID>/resourceGroups/<resource group>/providers/Microsoft.Compute/disks/myDisk 

```

Restart the VM using [az vm start](/en-us/cli/azure/vm).

```
az vm start \
   -n myVM \
   -g myResourceGroup

```

**Next steps**

To create a copy of a disk, see [Snapshot a disk](snapshot-copy-managed-disk).

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
