# Quickstart: Create a policy assignment to identify non-compliant resources with Azure CLI

* Article
* 02/28/2022
* 6 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

The first step in understanding compliance in Azure is to identify the status of your resources.
This quickstart steps you through the process of creating a policy assignment to identify virtual
machines that aren't using managed disks.

At the end of this process, you'll successfully identify virtual machines that aren't using managed
disks. They're *non-compliant* with the policy assignment.

Azure CLI is used to create and manage Azure resources from the command line or in scripts. This
guide uses Azure CLI to create a policy assignment and to identify non-compliant resources in your
Azure environment.

## Prerequisites

* If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/)
account before you begin.
* This quickstart requires that you run Azure CLI version 2.0.76 or later. To find the version, run
`az --version`. If you need to install or upgrade, see
[Install Azure CLI](/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).
* Register the Azure Policy Insights resource provider using Azure CLI. Registering the resource
provider makes sure that your subscription works with it. To register a resource provider, you
must have permission to the register resource provider operation. This operation is included in
the Contributor and Owner roles. Run the following command to register the resource provider:

```
az provider register --namespace 'Microsoft.PolicyInsights'

```

For more information about registering and viewing resource providers, see
[Resource Providers and Types](../../azure-resource-manager/management/resource-providers-and-types)
* If you haven't already, install the [ARMClient](https://github.com/projectkudu/ARMClient). It's a
tool that sends HTTP requests to Azure Resource Manager-based APIs.

## Azure Cloud Shell

Azure hosts Azure Cloud Shell, an interactive shell environment that you can use through your browser. You can use either Bash or PowerShell with Cloud Shell to work with Azure services. You can use the Cloud Shell preinstalled commands to run the code in this article, without having to install anything on your local environment.

To start Azure Cloud Shell:

| Option | Example/Link |
| --- | --- |
| Select **Try It** in the upper-right corner of a code or command block. Selecting **Try It** doesn't automatically copy the code or command to Cloud Shell. | Screenshot that shows an example of Try It for Azure Cloud Shell. |
| Go to <https://shell.azure.com>, or select the **Launch Cloud Shell** button to open Cloud Shell in your browser. | [Screenshot that shows how to launch Cloud Shell in a new window.](https://shell.azure.com) |
| Select the **Cloud Shell** button on the menu bar at the upper right in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). | Screenshot that shows the Cloud Shell button in the Azure portal |

To use Azure Cloud Shell:

1. Start Cloud Shell.
2. Select the **Copy** button on a code block (or command block) to copy the code or command.
3. Paste the code or command into the Cloud Shell session by selecting **Ctrl**+**Shift**+**V** on Windows and Linux, or by selecting **Cmd**+**Shift**+**V** on macOS.
4. Select **Enter** to run the code or command.

## Create a policy assignment

In this quickstart, you create a policy assignment and assign the **Audit VMs that do not use
managed disks** definition. This policy definition identifies resources that aren't compliant to the
conditions set in the policy definition.

Run the following command to create a policy assignment:

```
az policy assignment create --name 'audit-vm-manageddisks' --display-name 'Audit VMs without managed disks Assignment' --scope '<scope>' --policy '<policy definition ID>'

```

The preceding command uses the following information:

* **Name** - The actual name of the assignment. For this example, *audit-vm-manageddisks* was used.
* **DisplayName** - Display name for the policy assignment. In this case, you're using *Audit VMs
without managed disks Assignment*.
* **Policy** - The policy definition ID, based on which you're using to create the assignment. In
this case, it's the ID of policy definition *Audit VMs that do not use managed disks*. To get the
policy definition ID, run this command:
`az policy definition list --query "[?displayName=='Audit VMs that do not use managed disks']"`
* **Scope** - A scope determines what resources or grouping of resources the policy assignment gets
enforced on. It could range from a subscription to resource groups. Be sure to replace
<scope> with the name of your resource group.

## Identify non-compliant resources

To view the resources that aren't compliant under this new assignment, get the policy assignment ID
by running the following commands:

```
az policy assignment list --query "[?displayName=='Audit VMs without managed disks Assignment'].id"

```

For more information about policy assignment IDs, see
[az policy assignment](/en-us/cli/azure/policy/assignment).

Next, run the following command to get the resource IDs of the non-compliant resources that are
output into a JSON file:

```
armclient post "/subscriptions/<subscriptionID>/resourceGroups/<rgName>/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/latest/queryResults?api-version=2019-10-01&$filter=IsCompliant eq false and PolicyAssignmentId eq '<policyAssignmentID>'&$apply=groupby((ResourceId))" > <json file to direct the output with the resource IDs into>

```

Your results resemble the following example:

```
{
    "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest",
    "@odata.count": 3,
    "value": [{
            "@odata.id": null,
            "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
            "ResourceId": "/subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/resourcegroups/<rgname>/providers/microsoft.compute/virtualmachines/<virtualmachineId>"
        },
        {
            "@odata.id": null,
            "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
            "ResourceId": "/subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/resourcegroups/<rgname>/providers/microsoft.compute/virtualmachines/<virtualmachine2Id>"
        },
        {
            "@odata.id": null,
            "@odata.context": "https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/<subscriptionId>/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest/$entity",
            "ResourceId": "/subscriptions/<subscriptionName>/resourcegroups/<rgname>/providers/microsoft.compute/virtualmachines/<virtualmachine3ID>"
        }

    ]
}

```

The results are comparable to what you'd typically see listed under **Non-compliant resources** in
the Azure portal view.

## Clean up resources

To remove the assignment created, use the following command:

```
az policy assignment delete --name 'audit-vm-manageddisks' --scope '/subscriptions/<subscriptionID>/<resourceGroupName>'

```

## Next steps

In this quickstart, you assigned a policy definition to identify non-compliant resources in your
Azure environment.

To learn more about assigning policies to validate that new resources are compliant, continue to the
tutorial for:

[Creating and managing policies](tutorials/create-and-manage)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/675ae472-f324-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0da0)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
