# Av1-series retirement

* Article
* 06/09/2022
* 3 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

On August 31, 2024, we retire Basic and Standard A-series virtual machines (VMs). Before that date, migrate your workloads to Av2-series VMs, which provide more memory per vCPU and faster storage on solid-state drives (SSDs).

Note

In some cases, you must deallocate the VM prior to resizing. This can happen if the new size is not available on the hardware cluster that is currently hosting the VM.

## Migrate workloads to Av2-series VMs

You can resize your virtual machines to the Av2-series using the [Azure portal, PowerShell, or the CLI](resize-vm). Below are examples on how to resize your VM using the Azure portal and PowerShell.

Important

Resizing a virtual machine results in a restart. We recommend that you perform actions that result in a restart during off-peak business hours.

### Azure portal

1. Open the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. Type *virtual machines* in the search.
3. Under **Services**, select **Virtual machines**.
4. In the **Virtual machines** page, select the virtual machine you want to resize.
5. In the left menu, select **size**.
6. Pick a new Av2 size from the list of available sizes and select **Resize**.

### Azure PowerShell

1. Set the resource group and VM name variables. Replace the values with information of the VM you want to resize.

```
$resourceGroup = "myResourceGroup"
$vmName = "myVM"

```
2. List the VM sizes that are available on the hardware cluster where the VM is hosted.

```
Get-AzVMSize -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -VMName $vmName

```
3. Resize the VM to the new size.

```
$vm = Get-AzVM -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -VMName $vmName
$vm.HardwareProfile.VmSize = "<newAv2VMsize>"
Update-AzVM -VM $vm -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup

```

## Help and support

If you have questions, ask community experts in [Microsoft Q&A](/en-us/answers/topics/azure-virtual-machines.html). If you have a support plan and need technical help, create a support request:

1. In the [Help + support](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade/newsupportrequest) page, select **Create a support request**. Follow the **New support request** page instructions. Use the following values:
	* For **Issue type**, select **Technical**.
	* For **Service**, select **My services**.
	* For **Service type**, select **Virtual Machine running Windows/Linux**.
	* For **Resource**, select your VM.
	* For **Problem type**, select **Assistance with resizing my VM**.
	* For **Problem subtype**, select the option that applies to you.

Follow instructions in the **Solutions** and **Details** tabs, as applicable, and then **Review + create**.

## Next steps

Learn more about the [Av2-series VMs](av2-series)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
