# Compute optimized virtual machine sizes

* Article
* 12/21/2022
* 6 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

Tip

Try the **[Virtual machines selector tool](https://aka.ms/vm-selector)** to find other sizes that best fit your workload.

Compute optimized VM sizes have a high CPU-to-memory ratio. These sizes are good for medium traffic web servers, network appliances, batch processes, and application servers. This article provides information about the number of vCPUs, data disks, and NICs. It also includes information about storage throughput and network bandwidth for each size in this grouping.

* The [Fsv2-series](fsv2-series) runs on 2nd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors and Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8168 (Skylake) processors. It features a sustained all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz and a maximum single-core turbo frequency of 3.7 GHz. Intel® AVX-512 instructions are new on Intel Scalable Processors. These instructions provide up to a 2X performance boost to vector processing workloads on both single and double precision floating point operations. In other words, they're really fast for any computational workload. At a lower per-hour list price, the Fsv2-series is the best value in price-performance in the Azure portfolio based on the Azure Compute Unit (ACU) per vCPU.
* The [FX-series](fx-series) runs on the Intel® Xeon® Gold 6246R (Cascade Lake) processors. It features an all-core-turbo frequency of 4.0GHz, 21GB RAM per vCPU, up to 1TB total RAM, and local temporary storage. It will benefit workloads which require a high CPU clock speed and high memory to CPU ratio, workloads with high per-core licensing costs, and applications requiring high a single-core performance. A typical use case for FX-series is the Electronic Design Automation (EDA) workload.

## Other sizes

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

For more information on how Azure names its VMs, see [Azure virtual machine sizes naming conventions](vm-naming-conventions).

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
