# Fsv2-series

* Article
* 12/20/2022
* 11 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The Fsv2-series run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake) processors, or the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8168 (Skylake) processors. It features a sustained all core Turbo clock speed of 3.4 GHz and a maximum single-core turbo frequency of 3.7 GHz. Intel® AVX-512 instructions are new on Intel Scalable Processors. These instructions provide up to a 2X performance boost to vector processing workloads on both single and double precision floating point operations. In other words, they're really fast for any computational workload.

Fsv2-series VMs feature Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology.

[ACU](acu): 195 - 210  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported   

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU's | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max cached and temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps (cache size in GiB) | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max burst uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps1 | Max NICs | Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_F2s\_v24 | 2 | 4 | 16 | 4 | 4000/31 (32) | 3200/47 | 4000/200 | 2 | 5000 |
| Standard\_F4s\_v2 | 4 | 8 | 32 | 8 | 8000/63 (64) | 6400/95 | 8000/200 | 2 | 10000 |
| Standard\_F8s\_v2 | 8 | 16 | 64 | 16 | 16000/127 (128) | 12800/190 | 16000/400 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_F16s\_v2 | 16 | 32 | 128 | 32 | 32000/255 (256) | 25600/380 | 32000/800 | 4 | 12500 |
| Standard\_F32s\_v2 | 32 | 64 | 256 | 32 | 64000/512 (512) | 51200/750 | 64000/1600 | 8 | 16000 |
| Standard\_F48s\_v2 | 48 | 96 | 384 | 32 | 96000/768 (768) | 76800/1100 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 21000 |
| Standard\_F64s\_v2 | 64 | 128 | 512 | 32 | 128000/1024 (1024) | 80000/1100 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 28000 |
| Standard\_F72s\_v22, 3 | 72 | 144 | 576 | 32 | 144000/1152 (1520) | 80000/1100 | 80000/2000 | 8 | 30000 |

1 Fsv2-series VMs can [burst](disk-bursting) their disk performance and get up to their bursting max for up to 30 minutes at a time.

2 The use of more than 64 vCPU require one of these supported guest operating systems:

* Windows Server 2016 or later
* Ubuntu 16.04 LTS or later, with Azure tuned kernel (4.15 kernel or later)
* SLES 12 SP2 or later
* RHEL or CentOS version 6.7 through 6.10, with Microsoft-provided LIS package 4.3.1 (or later) installed
* RHEL or CentOS version 7.3, with Microsoft-provided LIS package 4.2.1 (or later) installed
* RHEL or CentOS version 7.6 or later
* Oracle Linux with UEK4 or later
* Debian 9 with the backports kernel, Debian 10 or later
* CoreOS with a 4.14 kernel or later

3 Instance is isolated to hardware dedicated to a single customer.  

4 Accelerated networking can only be applied to a single NIC.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator: [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

More information on Disks Types : [Disk Types](disks-types#ultra-disks)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
