# FX-series

* Article
* 12/20/2022
* 7 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

The FX-series runs on the Intel® Xeon® Gold 6246R (Cascade Lake) processors. It features an all-core-turbo frequency of 4.0 GHz, 21 GB RAM per vCPU, up to 1 TB total RAM, and local temporary storage. The FX-series will benefit workloads that require a high CPU clock speed and high memory to CPU ratio, workloads with high per-core licensing costs, and applications requiring a high single-core performance. A typical use case for FX-series is the Electronic Design Automation (EDA) workload.

FX-series VMs feature [Intel® Turbo Boost Technology 2.0](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/turbo-boost/turbo-boost-technology.html), [Intel® Hyper-Threading Technology](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/hyper-threading/hyper-threading-technology.html), and [Intel® Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel® AVX-512)](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/avx-512-overview.html).

[ACU](acu): 310 - 340  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Supported   

| Size | vCPU's | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max cached and temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs | Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_FX4mds | 4 | 84 | 168 | 8 | 40000/343 | 6700/104 | 2 | 4000 |
| Standard\_FX12mds | 12 | 252 | 504 | 24 | 100000/1029 | 20000/314 | 4 | 8000 |
| Standard\_FX24mds | 24 | 504 | 1008 | 32 | 200000/2057 | 40000/629 | 4 | 16000 |
| Standard\_FX36mds | 36 | 756 | 1512 | 32 | 300000/3086 | 60000/944 | 8 | 24000 |
| Standard\_FX48mds | 48 | 1008 | 2016 | 32 | 400000/3871 | 80000/1258 | 8 | 32000 |

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator: [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

More information on Disks Types: [Disk Types](disks-types#ultra-disks)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
