# Memory optimized Dv2 and Dsv2-series

* Article
* 12/21/2022
* 9 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

Dv2 and Dsv2-series, a follow-on to the original D-series, features a more powerful CPU. DSv2-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), the Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1 GHz (Skylake), the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors. The Dv2-series has the same memory and disk configurations as the D-series.

## Dv2-series 11-15

Dv2-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), the Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1 GHz (Skylake), the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors.

[ACU](acu): 210 - 250  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max temp storage throughput: IOPS/Read MBps/Write MBps | Max data disks/throughput: IOPS | Max NICs | Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_D11\_v2 | 2 | 14 | 100 | 6000/93/46 | 8/8x500 | 2 | 1500 |
| Standard\_D12\_v2 | 4 | 28 | 200 | 12000/187/93 | 16/16x500 | 4 | 3000 |
| Standard\_D13\_v2 | 8 | 56 | 400 | 24000/375/187 | 32/32x500 | 8 | 6000 |
| Standard\_D14\_v2 | 16 | 112 | 800 | 48000/750/375 | 64/64x500 | 8 | 12000 |
| Standard\_D15\_v2 1 | 20 | 140 | 1000 | 60000/937/468 | 64/64x500 | 8 | 25000 2 |

1 Instance is isolated to hardware dedicated to a single customer.  

2 25000 Mbps with Accelerated Networking.

## DSv2-series 11-15

DSv2-series sizes run on the 3rd Generation Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8370C (Ice Lake), the Intel® Xeon® Platinum 8272CL (Cascade Lake), the Intel® Xeon® 8171M 2.1 GHz (Skylake), the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v4 2.3 GHz (Broadwell), or the Intel® Xeon® E5-2673 v3 2.4 GHz (Haswell) processors.

[ACU](acu): 210 - 250 1  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported   

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | Max data disks | Max cached and temp storage throughput: IOPS/MBps (cache size in GiB) | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs | Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_DS11\_v2 3 | 2 | 14 | 28 | 8 | 8000/64 (72) | 6400/96 | 2 | 1500 |
| Standard\_DS12\_v2 3 | 4 | 28 | 56 | 16 | 16000/128 (144) | 12800/192 | 4 | 3000 |
| Standard\_DS13\_v2 3 | 8 | 56 | 112 | 32 | 32000/256 (288) | 25600/384 | 8 | 6000 |
| Standard\_DS14\_v2 3 | 16 | 112 | 224 | 64 | 64000/512 (576) | 51200/768 | 8 | 12000 |
| Standard\_DS15\_v2 2 | 20 | 140 | 280 | 64 | 80000/640 (720) | 64000/960 | 8 | 25000 4 |

1 The maximum disk throughput (IOPS or MBps) possible with a DSv2 series VM may be limited by the number, size and striping of the attached disk(s). For details, see [Designing for high performance](premium-storage-performance).
2 Instance is isolated to the Intel Haswell based hardware and dedicated to a single customer.  

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator: [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

More information on Disks Types : [Disk Types](disks-types#ultra-disks)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
