# NCasT4\_v3-series

* Article
* 05/24/2022
* 11 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The NCasT4\_v3-series virtual machines are powered by [Nvidia Tesla T4](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/tesla-t4/) GPUs and AMD EPYC 7V12(Rome) CPUs. The VMs feature up to 4 NVIDIA T4 GPUs with 16 GB of memory each, up to 64 non-multithreaded AMD EPYC 7V12 (Rome) processor cores(base frequency of 2.45 GHz, all-cores peak frequency of 3.1 GHz and single-core peak frequency of 3.3 GHz) and 440 GiB of system memory. These virtual machines are ideal for deploying AI services- such as real-time inferencing of user-generated requests, or for interactive graphics and visualization workloads using NVIDIA's GRID driver and virtual GPU technology. Standard GPU compute workloads based around CUDA, TensorRT, Caffe, ONNX and other frameworks, or GPU-accelerated graphical applications based on OpenGL and DirectX can be deployed economically, with close proximity to users, on the NCasT4\_v3 series.

[ACU](acu): 230-260  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/ultra-disk-storage-for-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/2189312) about availability, usage, and performance)   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

Nvidia NVLink Interconnect: Not Supported  

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | GPU | GPU memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max NICs / Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_NC4as\_T4\_v3 | 4 | 28 | 180 | 1 | 16 | 8 | 2 / 8000 |
| Standard\_NC8as\_T4\_v3 | 8 | 56 | 360 | 1 | 16 | 16 | 4 / 8000 |
| Standard\_NC16as\_T4\_v3 | 16 | 110 | 360 | 1 | 16 | 32 | 8 / 8000 |
| Standard\_NC64as\_T4\_v3 | 64 | 440 | 2880 | 4 | 64 | 32 | 8 / 32000 |

## Supported operating systems and drivers

To take advantage of the GPU capabilities of Azure NCasT4\_v3-series VMs running Windows or Linux, Nvidia GPU drivers must be installed.

To install Nvidia GPU drivers manually, see [N-series GPU driver setup for Windows](windows/n-series-driver-setup) for supported operating systems, drivers, installation, and verification steps.

The Azure Nvidia GPU driver extension will deploy CUDA drivers on the NCasT4\_v3-series VMs. For graphics and visualization workloads manually install the GRID drivers supported by Azure.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
