# ND-series

* Article
* 12/20/2022
* 18 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The ND-series virtual machines are a new addition to the GPU family designed for AI, and Deep Learning workloads. They offer excellent performance for training and inference. ND instances are powered by [NVIDIA Tesla P40](https://images.nvidia.com/content/pdf/tesla/184427-Tesla-P40-Datasheet-NV-Final-Letter-Web.pdf) GPUs and Intel Xeon E5-2690 v4 (Broadwell) CPUs. These instances provide excellent performance for single-precision floating point operations, for AI workloads utilizing Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, TensorFlow, Caffe, and other frameworks. The ND-series also offers a much larger GPU memory size (24 GB), enabling to fit much larger neural net models. Like the NC-series, the ND-series offers a configuration with a secondary low-latency, high-throughput network through RDMA, and InfiniBand connectivity so you can run large-scale training jobs spanning many GPUs.

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/ultra-disk-storage-for-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/2189312) about availability, usage and performance)   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Not Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

Nvidia NVLink Interconnect: Not Supported  

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

Important

For this VM series, the vCPU (core) quota per region in your subscription is initially set to 0. [Request a vCPU quota increase](../azure-portal/supportability/regional-quota-requests) for this series in an [available region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/services/).

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | GPU | GPU memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_ND6s | 6 | 112 | 736 | 1 | 24 | 12 | 20000/200 | 4 |
| Standard\_ND12s | 12 | 224 | 1474 | 2 | 48 | 24 | 40000/400 | 8 |
| Standard\_ND24s | 24 | 448 | 2948 | 4 | 96 | 32 | 80000/800 | 8 |
| Standard\_ND24rs\* | 24 | 448 | 2948 | 4 | 96 | 32 | 80000/800 | 8 |

1 GPU = one P40 card.

\*RDMA capable

## Supported operating systems and drivers

To take advantage of the GPU capabilities of Azure N-series VMs, NVIDIA GPU drivers must be installed.

The [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-windows) installs appropriate NVIDIA CUDA or GRID drivers on an N-series VM. Install or manage the extension using the Azure portal or tools such as Azure PowerShell or Azure Resource Manager templates. See the [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension documentation](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-windows) for supported operating systems and deployment steps. For general information about VM extensions, see [Azure virtual machine extensions and features](extensions/overview).

If you choose to install NVIDIA GPU drivers manually, see [N-series GPU driver setup for Windows](windows/n-series-driver-setup) or [N-series GPU driver setup for Linux](linux/n-series-driver-setup) for supported operating systems, drivers, installation, and verification steps.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
