# NV-series

* Article
* 05/24/2022
* 6 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

Important

NV and NV\_Promo series Azure virtual machines (VMs) will be retired on August 31st, 2023. For more information, see the [NV and NV\_Promo retirement information](nv-series-retirement). For how to migrate your workloads to other VM sizes, see the [NV and NV\_Promo series migration guide](nv-series-migration-guide).

This retirement announcement doesn't apply to NVv3 and NVv4 series VMs.

The NV-series virtual machines are powered by [NVIDIA Tesla M60](https://images.nvidia.com/content/tesla/pdf/188417-Tesla-M60-DS-A4-fnl-Web.pdf) GPUs and NVIDIA GRID technology for desktop accelerated applications and virtual desktops where customers are able to visualize their data or simulations. Users are able to visualize their graphics intensive workflows on the NV instances to get superior graphics capability and additionally run single precision workloads such as encoding and rendering. NV-series VMs are also powered by Intel Xeon E5-2690 v3 (Haswell) CPUs.

Each GPU in NV instances comes with a GRID license. This license gives you the flexibility to use an NV instance as a virtual workstation for a single user, or 25 concurrent users can connect to the VM for a virtual application scenario.

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Not Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Not Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Not Supported   

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | GPU | GPU memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max NICs | Virtual Workstations | Virtual Applications |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_NV6 | 6 | 56 | 340 | 1 | 8 | 24 | 1 | 1 | 25 |
| Standard\_NV12 | 12 | 112 | 680 | 2 | 16 | 48 | 2 | 2 | 50 |
| Standard\_NV24 | 24 | 224 | 1440 | 4 | 32 | 64 | 4 | 4 | 100 |

1 GPU = one-half M60 card.

## Supported operating systems and drivers

To take advantage of the GPU capabilities of Azure N-series VMs, NVIDIA GPU drivers must be installed.

The [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-windows) installs appropriate NVIDIA CUDA or GRID drivers on an N-series VM. Install or manage the extension using the Azure portal or tools such as Azure PowerShell or Azure Resource Manager templates. See the [NVIDIA GPU Driver Extension documentation](extensions/hpccompute-gpu-windows) for supported operating systems and deployment steps. For general information about VM extensions, see [Azure virtual machine extensions and features](extensions/overview).

If you choose to install NVIDIA GPU drivers manually, see [N-series GPU driver setup for Windows](windows/n-series-driver-setup) or [N-series GPU driver setup for Linux](linux/n-series-driver-setup) for supported operating systems, drivers, installation, and verification steps.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
