# NVv4-series

* Article
* 01/18/2023
* 13 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The NVv4-series virtual machines are powered by [AMD Radeon Instinct MI25](https://www.amd.com/en/products/professional-graphics/instinct-mi25) GPUs and AMD EPYC 7V12(Rome) CPUs with a base frequency of 2.45GHz, all-cores peak frequency of 3.1GHz and single-core peak frequency of 3.3GHz. With NVv4-series Azure is introducing virtual machines with partial GPUs. Pick the right sized virtual machine for GPU accelerated graphics applications and virtual desktops starting at 1/8th of a GPU with 2 GiB frame buffer to a full GPU with 16 GiB frame buffer. NVv4 virtual machines currently support only Windows guest operating system.

[ACU](acu): 230-260  

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/ultra-disk-storage-for-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/2189312) about availability, usage and performance)   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | GPU | GPU memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max uncached disk throughput: IOPS/MBps | Max NICs / Expected network bandwidth (MBps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_NV4as\_v4 | 4 | 14 | 88 | 1/8 | 2 | 4 | 6400 / 96 | 2 / 1000 |
| Standard\_NV8as\_v4 | 8 | 28 | 176 | 1/4 | 4 | 8 | 12800 / 192 | 4 / 2000 |
| Standard\_NV16as\_v4 | 16 | 56 | 352 | 1/2 | 8 | 16 | 25600 / 384 | 8 / 4000 |
| Standard\_NV32as\_v4 | 32 | 112 | 704 | 1 | 16 | 32 | 51200 / 768 | 8 / 8000 |

1 NVv4-series VMs feature AMD Simultaneous multithreading Technology

## Supported operating systems and drivers

To take advantage of the GPU capabilities of Azure NVv4-series VMs running Windows, AMD GPU drivers must be installed.

To install AMD GPU drivers manually, see [N-series AMD GPU driver setup for Windows](windows/n-series-amd-driver-setup) for supported operating systems, drivers, installation, and verification steps.

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
