# NP-series

* Article
* 03/24/2023
* 10 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

The NP-series virtual machines are powered by [Xilinx U250](https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/alveo/u250.html) FPGAs for accelerating workloads including machine learning inference, video transcoding, and database search & analytics. NP-series VMs are also powered by Intel Xeon 8171M (Skylake) CPUs with all core turbo clock speed of 3.2 GHz.

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

VM Generation Support: Generation 1  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported  

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

[Nested Virtualization](/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/user-guide/nested-virtualization): Not Supported   

| Size | vCPU | Memory: GiB | Temp storage (SSD) GiB | FPGA | FPGA memory: GiB | Max data disks | Max NICs/ Expected network bandwidth (Mbps) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_NP10s | 10 | 168 | 736 | 1 | 64 | 8 | 1 / 7500 |
| Standard\_NP20s | 20 | 336 | 1474 | 2 | 128 | 16 | 2 / 15000 |
| Standard\_NP40s | 40 | 672 | 2948 | 4 | 256 | 32 | 4 / 30000 |

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Frequently asked questions

**Q:** How to request quota for NP VMs?

**A:** Follow this page [Increase VM-family vCPU quotas](../azure-portal/supportability/per-vm-quota-requests). NP VMs are available in East US, West US2, West Europe, SouthEast Asia, and SouthCentral US.

**Q:** What version of Vitis should I use?

**A:** Xilinx recommends [Vitis 2022.1](https://www.xilinx.com/products/design-tools/vitis/vitis-platform.html), you can also use the Development VM marketplace options (Vitis 2022.1 Development VM for Ubuntu 18.04, Ubuntu 20.04, and CentOS 7.8)

**Q:** Do I need to use NP VMs to develop my solution?

**A:** No, you can develop on-premises and deploy to the cloud. Make sure to follow the [attestation documentation](field-programmable-gate-arrays-attestation) to deploy on NP VMs.

**Q:** What shell version is supported and how can I get the development files?

**A:** The FPGAs in Azure NP VMs support Xilinx Shell 2.1 (gen3x16-xdma-shell\_2.1). See Xilinx Page [Xilinx/Azure with Alveo U250](https://www.xilinx.com/microsoft-azure.html) to get the development shell files.

**Q:** Which file returned from attestation should I use when programming my FPGA in an NP VM?

**A:** Attestation returns two xclbins, **design.bit.xclbin** and **design.azure.xclbin**. Use **design.azure.xclbin**.

**Q:** Where should I get all the XRT / Platform files?

**A:** Visit Xilinx's [Microsoft-Azure](https://www.xilinx.com/microsoft-azure.html) site for all files.

**Q:** What Version of XRT should I use?

**A:** xrt\_202210.2.13.479

**Q:** What is the target deployment platform?

**A:** Use the following platforms.

* xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-platform-2.1-3\_all
* xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-validate\_2.1-3005608.1

**Q:** Which platform should I target for development?

**A:** xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-2.1-202010-1-dev\_1-2954688\_all

**Q:** What are the supported Operating Systems?

**A:** Xilinx and Microsoft have validated Ubuntu 18.04 LTS, Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, and CentOS 7.8.

> 
> Xilinx has created the following marketplace images to simplify the deployment of these VMs:
> 
> 
> * Xilinx Alveo U250 2022.1 Deployment VM [Ubuntu18.04](https://portal.azure.com/#create/xilinx.vitis2022_1_ubuntu1804_development_imagevitis2022_1_ubuntu1804)
> * Xilinx Alveo U250 2022.1 Deployment VM [Ubuntu20.04](https://portal.azure.com/#create/xilinx.vitis2022_1_ubuntu2004_development_imagevitis2022_1_ubuntu2004)
> * Xilinx Alveo U250 2022.1 Deployment VM [CentOS7.8](https://portal.azure.com/#create/xilinx.vitis2022_1_centos78_development_imagevitis2022_1_centos78)
> 
> 
> 

**Q:** Can I deploy my Own Ubuntu / CentOS VMs and install XRT / Deployment Target Platform?

**A:** Yes.

**Q:** If I deploy my own Ubuntu18.04 VM then what are the required packages and steps?

**A:** Follow the guidance in Xilinx XRT documentation [Xilinx XRT documentation](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/ug1451-xrt-release-notes/XRT-Operating-System-Support)

> 
> Install the following packages.
> 
> 
> * xrt\_202210.2.13.479\_18.04-amd64-xrt.deb
> * xrt\_202210.2.13.479\_18.04-amd64-azure.deb
> * xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-platform-2.1-3\_all\_18.04.deb.tar.gz
> * xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-validate\_2.1-3005608.1\_all.deb
> 
> 
> 

**Q:** If I deploy my own Ubuntu20.04 VM then what are the required packages and steps?

**A:** Follow the guidance in Xilinx XRT documentation [Xilinx XRT documentation](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/ug1451-xrt-release-notes/XRT-Operating-System-Support)

> 
> Install the following packages.
> 
> 
> * xrt\_202210.2.13.479\_20.04-amd64-xrt.deb
> * xrt\_202210.2.13.479\_20.04-amd64-azure.deb
> * xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-platform-2.1-3\_all\_18.04.deb.tar.gz
> * xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-validate\_2.1-3005608.1\_all.deb
> 
> 
> 

**Q:** If I deploy my own CentOS7.8 VM then what are the required packages and steps?

**A:** Follow the guidance in Xilinx XRT documentation [Xilinx XRT documentation](https://docs.xilinx.com/r/en-US/ug1451-xrt-release-notes/XRT-Operating-System-Support)

> 
> Install the following packages.
> 
> 
> * xrt\_202210.2.13.479\_7.8.2003-x86\_64-xrt.rpm
> * xrt\_202210.2.13.479\_7.8.2003-x86\_64-azure.rpm
> * xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-platform-2.1-3.noarch.rpm.tar.gz
> * xilinx-u250-gen3x16-xdma-validate-2.1-3005608.1.noarch.rpm
> 
> 
> 

**Q:** What are the differences between on-premise FPGAs and NP VMs?

**A:**

**- Regarding XOCL/XCLMGMT:** 

On Azure NP VMs, only the role endpoint (Device ID 5005), which uses the XOCL driver, is present.

In on-premise FPGAs, both the management endpoint (Device ID 5004) and role endpoint (Device ID 5005), which use the XCLMGMT and XOCL drivers respectively, are present.

**- Regarding XRT:** 

On Azure NP VMs, the XDMA 2.1 platform only supports Host\_Mem(SB). 

To enable Host\_Mem(SB) (up to 1-Gb RAM): sudo xbutil host\_mem --enable --size 1g 

To disable Host\_Mem(SB): sudo xbutil host\_mem --disable 

Starting on XRT2021.1:
On-premise FPGA in Linux exposes
[M2M data transfer](https://xilinx.github.io/XRT/master/html/m2m.html).

This feature isn't supported in Azure NP VMs.

**Q:** Can I run xbmgmt commands?

**A:** No, on Azure VMs there's no management support directly from the Azure VM.

**Q:** Do I need to load a PLP?

**A:** No, the PLP is loaded automatically for you, so there's no need to load via xbmgmt commands.

**Q:** Does Azure support different PLPs?

**A:** Not at this time. We only support the PLP provided in the deployment platform packages.

**Q:** How can I query the PLP information?

**A:** Need to run xbutil query and look at the lower portion.

**Q:** Do Azure NP VMs support FPGA bitstreams with Networking GT Kernel connections?

**A:** No. The FPGA Attestation service performs a series of validations on a design checkpoint file and will generate an error if the user's application contains connections to the FPGA card's QSFP networking ports.

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator: [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
