# HBv3-series

* Article
* 03/07/2023
* 8 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs ✔️ Flexible scale sets ✔️ Uniform scale sets

HBv3-series VMs are optimized for HPC applications such as fluid dynamics, explicit and implicit finite element analysis, weather modeling, seismic processing, reservoir simulation, and RTL simulation. HBv3 VMs feature up to 120 AMD EPYC™ 7V73X (Milan-X) CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM, and no simultaneous multithreading. HBv3-series VMs also provide 350 GB/sec of memory bandwidth (amplified up to 630 GB/s), up to 96 MB of L3 cache per core (1.536 GB total per VM), up to 7 GB/s of block device SSD performance, and clock frequencies up to 3.5 GHz.

All HBv3-series VMs feature 200 Gb/sec HDR InfiniBand from NVIDIA Networking to enable supercomputer-scale MPI workloads. These VMs are connected in a non-blocking fat tree for optimized and consistent RDMA performance. The HDR InfiniBand fabric also supports Adaptive Routing and the Dynamic Connected Transport (DCT, in additional to standard RC and UD transports). These features enhance application performance, scalability, and consistency, and their usage is strongly recommended.

[Premium Storage](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Premium Storage caching](premium-storage-performance): Supported  

[Ultra Disks](disks-types#ultra-disks): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/ultra-disk-storage-for-hpc-and-gpu-vms/ba-p/2189312) about availability, usage and performance)   

[Live Migration](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[Memory Preserving Updates](maintenance-and-updates): Not Supported  

[VM Generation Support](generation-2): Generation 1 and 2  

[Accelerated Networking](../virtual-network/create-vm-accelerated-networking-cli): Supported ([Learn more](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/accelerated-networking-on-hb-hc-hbv2-and-ndv2/ba-p/2067965) about performance and potential issues)   

[Ephemeral OS Disks](ephemeral-os-disks): Supported  

| Size | vCPU | Processor | Memory (GiB) | Memory bandwidth GB/s | Base CPU frequency (GHz) | All-cores frequency (GHz, peak) | Single-core frequency (GHz, peak) | RDMA performance (Gb/s) | MPI support | Temp storage (GiB) | Max data disks | Max Ethernet vNICs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard\_HB120rs\_v3 | 120 | AMD EPYC 7V73X | 448 | 350 | 1.9 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 200 | All | 2 \* 960 | 32 | 8 |
| Standard\_HB120-96rs\_v3 | 96 | AMD EPYC 7V73X | 448 | 350 | 1.9 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 200 | All | 2 \* 960 | 32 | 8 |
| Standard\_HB120-64rs\_v3 | 64 | AMD EPYC 7V73X | 448 | 350 | 1.9 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 200 | All | 2 \* 960 | 32 | 8 |
| Standard\_HB120-32rs\_v3 | 32 | AMD EPYC 7V73X | 448 | 350 | 1.9 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 200 | All | 2 \* 960 | 32 | 8 |
| Standard\_HB120-16rs\_v3 | 16 | AMD EPYC 7V73X | 448 | 350 | 1.9 | 3.0 | 3.5 | 200 | All | 2 \* 960 | 32 | 8 |

Learn more about the:

* [Architecture and VM topology](hbv3-series-overview)
* Supported [software stack](hbv3-series-overview#software-specifications) including supported OS
* Expected [performance](hbv3-performance) of the HBv3-series VM

## Get started

* [Overview](overview-hb-hc) of HPC on InfiniBand-enabled HB-series and N-series VMs.
* [Configuring VMs](configure) and supported [OS and VM Images](configure#vm-images).
* [Enabling InfiniBand](extensions/enable-infiniband) with HPC VM images, VM extensions or manual installation.
* [Setting up MPI](setup-mpi), including code snippets and recommendations.
* [Cluster configuration options](sizes-hpc#cluster-configuration-options).
* [Deployment considerations](sizes-hpc#deployment-considerations).

## Size table definitions

* Storage capacity is shown in units of GiB or 1024^3 bytes. When you compare disks measured in GB (1000^3 bytes) to disks measured in GiB (1024^3) remember that capacity numbers given in GiB may appear smaller. For example, 1023 GiB = 1098.4 GB.
* Disk throughput is measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS) and MBps where MBps = 10^6 bytes/sec.
* Data disks can operate in cached or uncached modes. For cached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **ReadOnly** or **ReadWrite**. For uncached data disk operation, the host cache mode is set to **None**.
* To learn how to get the best storage performance for your VMs, see [Virtual machine and disk performance](disks-performance).
* **Expected network bandwidth** is the maximum aggregated bandwidth allocated per VM type across all NICs, for all destinations. For more information, see [Virtual machine network bandwidth](../virtual-network/virtual-machine-network-throughput).

Upper limits aren't guaranteed. Limits offer guidance for selecting the right VM type for the intended application. Actual network performance will depend on several factors including network congestion, application loads, and network settings. For information on optimizing network throughput, see [Optimize network throughput for Azure virtual machines](../virtual-network/virtual-network-optimize-network-bandwidth). To achieve the expected network performance on Linux or Windows, you may need to select a specific version or optimize your VM. For more information, see [Bandwidth/Throughput testing (NTTTCP)](../virtual-network/virtual-network-bandwidth-testing).

## Other sizes and information

* [General purpose](sizes-general)
* [Memory optimized](sizes-memory)
* [Storage optimized](sizes-storage)
* [GPU optimized](sizes-gpu)
* [High performance compute](sizes-hpc)
* [Previous generations](sizes-previous-gen)

Pricing Calculator : [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

For more information on disk types, see [What disk types are available in Azure?](disks-types)

## Next steps

* Read about the latest announcements, HPC workload examples, and performance results at the [Azure Compute Tech Community Blogs](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-compute/bg-p/AzureCompute).
* For a higher level architectural view of running HPC workloads, see [High Performance Computing (HPC) on Azure](/en-us/azure/architecture/topics/high-performance-computing/).
* Learn more about how [Azure compute units (ACU)](acu) can help you compare compute performance across Azure SKUs.

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
