# Explore Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows VMs

* Article
* 04/19/2023
* 17 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

For customers with Software Assurance or subscription licenses, Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server allows you to use your on-premises Windows Server licenses to get Windows virtual machines on Azure at a reduced cost. You can use Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server to deploy new virtual machines with Windows OS. This article goes over the steps on how to deploy new VMs with Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server and how you can update existing running VMs. For more information about Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server licensing and cost savings, see the [Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server licensing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/).

You'll need a minimum of 8 core licenses (Datacenter or Standard edition) per virtual machine. You may also run instances larger than 8 cores by allocating licenses equal to the core-size of the instance. For example, 12 core licenses are required for a 12-core instance, however 8 core licenses are still required if you run a 4-core instance. For customers with processor licenses, each two core processor license is equivalent to 16 core licenses.

Using Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server with any VMs running Windows Server OS are now supported in all regions, including VMs with additional software such as SQL Server or third-party marketplace software.

## Classic VMs

For classic VMs, only deploying new VM from on premises custom images is supported. To take advantage of the capabilities supported in this article, you must first migrate classic VMs to Resource Manager model.

Important

VMs created through the classic deployment model will be retired on September 1, 2023.

If you use IaaS resources from Azure Service Management, please complete your migration by September 1, 2023. We encourage you to make the switch sooner to take advantage of the many feature enhancements in Azure Resource Manager.

For more information, see [Migrate your IaaS resources to Azure Resource Manager by September 1, 2023](../classic-vm-deprecation).

## Ways to use Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server

There are few ways to use Windows virtual machines with the Azure Hybrid Benefit:

1. You can deploy VMs from one of the provided Windows Server images on the Azure Marketplace
2. You can upload a custom VM and deploy using a Resource Manager template or Azure PowerShell
3. You can toggle and convert existing VM between running with Azure Hybrid Benefit or pay on-demand cost for Windows Server
4. You can also apply Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server on virtual machine scale set as well

## Create a VM with Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server

All Windows Server OS based images are supported for Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server. You can use Azure platform support images or upload your own custom Windows Server images.

### Portal

To create a VM with Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server, scroll to the bottom of the **Basics** tab during the creation process and under **Licensing** check the box to use an existing Windows Server license.

### PowerShell

```
New-AzVm `
    -ResourceGroupName "myResourceGroup" `
    -Name "myVM" `
    -Location "East US" `
    -ImageName "Win2016Datacenter" `
    -LicenseType "Windows_Server"

```

### CLI

```
az vm create \
    --resource-group myResourceGroup \
    --name myVM \
    --location eastus \
    --license-type Windows_Server

```

### Template

Within your Resource Manager templates, an additional parameter `licenseType` must be specified. You can read more about [authoring Azure Resource Manager templates](../../azure-resource-manager/templates/syntax).

```
"properties": {
    "licenseType": "Windows_Server",
    "hardwareProfile": {
        "vmSize": "[variables('vmSize')]"
    }
}    

```

## Convert an existing VM using Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server

If you have an existing VM that you would like to convert to take advantage of Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server, you can update your VM's license type by following the instructions below.

Note

Changing the license type on the VM does not cause the system to reboot or cause a service interuption. It is simply an update to a metadata flag.

### Portal

From portal VM blade, you can update the VM to use Azure Hybrid Benefit by selecting "Configuration" option and toggle the "Azure hybrid benefit" option

### PowerShell

* Convert existing Windows Server VMs to Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server

```
$vm = Get-AzVM -ResourceGroup "rg-name" -Name "vm-name"
$vm.LicenseType = "Windows_Server"
Update-AzVM -ResourceGroupName rg-name -VM $vm

```
* Convert Windows Server VMs with benefit back to pay-as-you-go

```
$vm = Get-AzVM -ResourceGroup "rg-name" -Name "vm-name"
$vm.LicenseType = "None"
Update-AzVM -ResourceGroupName rg-name -VM $vm

```

### CLI

* Convert existing Windows Server VMs to Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server

```
az vm update --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myVM --set licenseType=Windows_Server

```

### How to verify your VM is utilizing the licensing benefit

Once you've deployed your VM through either PowerShell, Resource Manager template or portal, you can verify the setting in the following methods.

### Portal

From portal VM blade, you can view the toggle for Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server by selecting "Configuration" tab.

### PowerShell

The following example shows the license type for a single VM

```
Get-AzVM -ResourceGroup "myResourceGroup" -Name "myVM"

```

Output:

```
Type                     : Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
Location                 : westus
LicenseType              : Windows_Server

```

This output contrasts with the following VM deployed without Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server licensing:

```
Type                     : Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines
Location                 : westus
LicenseType              :

```

### CLI

```
az vm get-instance-view -g MyResourceGroup -n MyVM --query "[?licenseType=='Windows_Server']" -o table

```

Note

Changing the license type on the VM does not cause the system to reboot or cause a service interuption. It is a metadata licensing flag only.

## List all VMs and virtual machine scale sets with Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server in a subscription

To see and count all virtual machines and virtual machine scale sets deployed with Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server, you can run the following command from your subscription:

### Portal

From the Virtual Machine or Virtual machine scale sets resource blade, you can view a list of all your VM(s) and licensing type by configuring the table column to include "OS licensing benefit". The VM setting can either be in **Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows**, **Not enabled**, or **Windows client with multi-tenant hosting** state.

### PowerShell

For virtual machines:

```
Get-AzVM | ?{$_.LicenseType -like "Windows_Server"} | select ResourceGroupName, Name, LicenseType

```

For virtual machine scale sets:

```
Get-AzVmss | Select * -ExpandProperty VirtualMachineProfile | ? LicenseType -eq 'Windows_Server' | select ResourceGroupName, Name, LicenseType

```

### CLI

For virtual machines:

```
az vm list --query "[?licenseType=='Windows_Server']" -o table

```

For virtual machine scale sets:

```
az vmss list --query "[?virtualMachineProfile.licenseType=='Windows_Server']" -o table

```

## Deploy a Virtual Machine Scale Set with Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server

Within your virtual machine scale set Resource Manager templates, an additional parameter `licenseType` must be specified within your VirtualMachineProfile property. You can do this during create or update for your scale set through ARM template, PowerShell, Azure CLI or REST.

The following example uses ARM template with a Windows Server 2016 Datacenter image:

```
"virtualMachineProfile": {
    "storageProfile": {
        "osDisk": {
            "createOption": "FromImage"
        },
        "imageReference": {
            "publisher": "MicrosoftWindowsServer",
            "offer": "WindowsServer",
            "sku": "2016-Datacenter",
            "version": "latest"
        }
    },
    "licenseType": "Windows_Server",
    "osProfile": {
            "computerNamePrefix": "[parameters('vmssName')]",
            "adminUsername": "[parameters('adminUsername')]",
            "adminPassword": "[parameters('adminPassword')]"
    }
}    

```

You can also learn more about how to [Modify a virtual machine scale set](../../virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-upgrade-scale-set) for more ways to update your scale set.

## Next steps

* Read more about [How to save money with the Azure Hybrid Benefit](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/)
* Read more about [Frequently asked questions for Azure Hybrid Benefit](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/hybrid-use-benefit/faq/)
* Learn more about [Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server licensing detailed guidance](/en-us/windows-server/get-started/azure-hybrid-benefit)
* Learn more about [Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server and Azure Site Recovery make migrating applications to Azure even more cost-effective](https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/hybrid-use-benefit-migration-with-asr/)
* Learn more about [Windows 10 on Azure with Multitenant Hosting Right](windows-desktop-multitenant-hosting-deployment)
* Learn more about [Using Resource Manager templates](../../azure-resource-manager/management/overview)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
