# Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines FAQ

* FAQ
* 3 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

This article provides answers to frequently asked questions (FAQ) about Azure Disk Encryption for Linux virtual machines (VMs). For more information about this service, see [Azure Disk Encryption overview](disk-encryption-overview).

## What is Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs?

Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs uses the dm-crypt feature of Linux to provide full disk encryption of the OS disk\* and data disks. Additionally, it provides encryption of the temporary disk when using the [EncryptFormatAll feature](disk-encryption-linux#use-encryptformatall-feature-for-data-disks-on-linux-vms). The content flows encrypted from the VM to the Storage backend. Thereby, providing end-to-end encryption with a customer-managed key.

See [Supported VMs and operating systems](disk-encryption-overview#supported-vms-and-operating-systems).

## Where is Azure Disk Encryption in general availability (GA)?

Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs is in general availability in all Azure public regions.

## What user experiences are available with Azure Disk Encryption?

Azure Disk Encryption GA supports Azure Resource Manager templates, Azure PowerShell, and Azure CLI. The different user experiences give you flexibility. You have three different options for enabling disk encryption for your VMs. For more information on the user experience and step-by-step guidance available in Azure Disk Encryption, see [Azure Disk Encryption scenarios for Linux](disk-encryption-linux).

## How much does Azure Disk Encryption cost?

There's no charge for encrypting VM disks with Azure Disk Encryption, but there are charges associated with the use of Azure Key Vault. For more information on Azure Key Vault costs, see the [Key Vault pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/key-vault/) page.

## How can I start using Azure Disk Encryption?

To get started, read the [Azure Disk Encryption overview](disk-encryption-overview).

## What VM sizes and operating systems support Azure Disk Encryption?

The [Azure Disk Encryption overview](disk-encryption-overview) article lists the [VM sizes](disk-encryption-overview#supported-vms) and [VM operating systems](disk-encryption-overview#supported-operating-systems) that support Azure Disk Encryption.

## Can I encrypt both boot and data volumes with Azure Disk Encryption?

Yes, you can encrypt both boot and data volumes, or you can encrypt the data volume without having to encrypt the OS volume first.

After you've encrypted the OS volume, disabling encryption on the OS volume isn't supported. For Linux VMs in a scale set, only the data volume can be encrypted.

## Can I encrypt an unmounted volume with Azure Disk Encryption?

No, Azure Disk Encryption only encrypts mounted volumes.

## What is Storage server-side encryption?

Storage server-side encryption encrypts Azure managed disks in Azure Storage. Managed disks are encrypted by default with Server-side encryption with a platform-managed key (as of June 10, 2017). You can manage encryption of managed disks with your own keys by specifying a customer-managed key. For more information see: [Server-side encryption of Azure managed disks](../disk-encryption).

## How is Azure Disk Encryption different from Storage server-side encryption with customer-managed key and when should I use each solution?

Azure Disk Encryption provides end-to-end encryption for the OS disk, data disks, and the temporary disk, using a customer-managed key.

* If your requirements include encrypting all of the above and end-to-end encryption, use Azure Disk Encryption.
* If your requirements include encrypting only data at rest with customer-managed key, then use [Server-side encryption with customer-managed keys](../disk-encryption). You cannot encrypt a disk with both Azure Disk Encryption and Storage server-side encryption with customer-managed keys.
* If your Linux distro is not listed under [supported operating systems for Azure Disk Encryption](disk-encryption-overview#supported-operating-systems) or you are using a scenario called out in the [unsupported scenarios for Windows](disk-encryption-linux#unsupported-scenarios), consider [Server-side encryption with customer-managed keys](../disk-encryption).
* If your organization's policy allows you to encrypt content at rest with an Azure-managed key, then no action is needed - the content is encrypted by default. For managed disks, the content inside storage is encrypted by default with Server-side encryption with platform-managed key. The key is managed by the Azure Storage service.

## How do I rotate secrets or encryption keys?

To rotate secrets, just call the same command you used originally to enable disk encryption, specifying a different Key Vault. To rotate the key encryption key, call the same command you used originally to enable disk encryption, specifying the new key encryption.

Warning

* If you have previously used [Azure Disk Encryption with Azure AD app](disk-encryption-linux-aad) by specifying Azure AD credentials to encrypt this VM, you will have to continue use this option to encrypt your VM. You can't use Azure Disk Encryption on this encrypted VM as this isn't a supported scenario, meaning switching away from Azure AD application for this encrypted VM isn't supported yet.

## How do I add or remove a key encryption key if I didn't originally use one?

To add a key encryption key, call the enable command again passing the key encryption key parameter. To remove a key encryption key, call the enable command again without the key encryption key parameter.

## Does Azure Disk Encryption allow you to bring your own key (BYOK)?

Yes, you can supply your own key encryption keys. These keys are safeguarded in Azure Key Vault, which is the key store for Azure Disk Encryption. For more information on the key encryption keys support scenarios, see [Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption](disk-encryption-key-vault).

## Can I use an Azure-created key encryption key?

Yes, you can use Azure Key Vault to generate a key encryption key for Azure disk encryption use. These keys are safeguarded in Azure Key Vault, which is the key store for Azure Disk Encryption. For more information on the key encryption key, see [Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption](disk-encryption-key-vault).

## Can I use an on-premises key management service or HSM to safeguard the encryption keys?

You can't use the on-premises key management service or HSM to safeguard the encryption keys with Azure Disk Encryption. You can only use the Azure Key Vault service to safeguard the encryption keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, see [Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption](disk-encryption-key-vault).

## What are the prerequisites to configure Azure Disk Encryption?

There are prerequisites for Azure Disk Encryption. See the [Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption](disk-encryption-key-vault) article to create a new key vault, or set up an existing key vault for disk encryption access to enable encryption, and safeguard secrets and keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, see [Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption](disk-encryption-key-vault).

## What are the prerequisites to configure Azure Disk Encryption with an Azure AD app (previous release)?

There are prerequisites for Azure Disk Encryption. See the [Azure Disk Encryption with Azure AD](disk-encryption-linux-aad) content to create an Azure Active Directory application, create a new key vault, or set up an existing key vault for disk encryption access to enable encryption, and safeguard secrets and keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, see [Creating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption with Azure AD](disk-encryption-key-vault-aad).

## Is Azure Disk Encryption using an Azure AD app (previous release) still supported?

Yes. Disk encryption using an Azure AD app is still supported. However, when encrypting new VMs it's recommended that you use the new method rather than encrypting with an Azure AD app.

## Can I migrate VMs that were encrypted with an Azure AD app to encryption without an Azure AD app?

Currently, there isn't a direct migration path for machines that were encrypted with an Azure AD app to encryption without an Azure AD app. Additionally, there isn't a direct path from encryption without an Azure AD app to encryption with an AD app.

## What version of Azure PowerShell does Azure Disk Encryption support?

Use the latest version of the Azure PowerShell SDK to configure Azure Disk Encryption. Download the latest version of [Azure PowerShell](https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell/releases). Azure Disk Encryption is *not* supported by Azure SDK version 1.1.0.

Note

The Linux Azure disk encryption preview extension "Microsoft.OSTCExtension.AzureDiskEncryptionForLinux" is deprecated. This extension was published for Azure disk encryption preview release. You should not use the preview version of the extension in your testing or production deployment.

> 
> For deployment scenarios like Azure Resource Manager (ARM), where you have a need to deploy Azure disk encryption extension for Linux VM to enable encryption on your Linux IaaS VM, you must use the Azure disk encryption production supported extension "Microsoft.Azure.Security.AzureDiskEncryptionForLinux".
> 
> 
> 

## Can I apply Azure Disk Encryption on my custom Linux image?

You can't apply Azure Disk Encryption on your custom Linux image. Only the gallery Linux images for the supported distributions called out previously are supported. Custom Linux images aren't currently supported.

## Can I apply updates to a Linux Red Hat VM that uses the yum update?

Yes, you can perform a yum update on a Red Hat Linux VM. For more information, see [Azure Disk Encryption on an isolated network](disk-encryption-isolated-network).

## What is the recommended Azure disk encryption workflow for Linux?

The following workflow is recommended to have the best results on Linux:

* Start from the unmodified stock gallery image corresponding to the needed OS distro and version
* Back up any mounted drives that will be encrypted. This back up allows for recovery if there's a failure, for example if the VM is rebooted before encryption has completed.
* Encrypt (can take several hours or even days depending on VM characteristics and size of any attached data disks)
* Customize, and add software to the image as needed.

If this workflow isn't possible, relying on [Storage Service Encryption](../../storage/common/storage-service-encryption) (SSE) at the platform storage account layer may be an alternative to full disk encryption using dm-crypt.

## What is the disk "Bek Volume" or "/mnt/azure\_bek\_disk"?

The "Bek volume" is a local data volume that securely stores the encryption keys for Encrypted Azure VMs.

Note

Do not delete or edit any contents in this disk. Do not unmount the disk since the encryption key presence is needed for any encryption operations on the IaaS VM.

## What encryption method does Azure Disk Encryption use?

Azure Disk Encryption uses the decrypt default of aes-xts-plain64 with a 256-bit volume master key.

## If I use EncryptFormatAll and specify all volume types, will it erase the data on the data drives that we already encrypted?

No, data won't be erased from data drives that are already encrypted using Azure Disk Encryption. Similar to how EncryptFormatAll didn't re-encrypt the OS drive, it won't re-encrypt the already encrypted data drive. For more information, see the [EncryptFormatAll criteria](disk-encryption-linux#use-encryptformatall-feature-for-data-disks-on-linux-vms).

## Is XFS filesystem supported?

Encryption of XFS OS disks is supported.

Encryption of XFS data disks is supported only when the EncryptFormatAll parameter is used. This will reformat the volume, erasing any data previously there. For more information, see the [EncryptFormatAll criteria](disk-encryption-linux#use-encryptformatall-feature-for-data-disks-on-linux-vms).

## Is resizing the OS partition supported?

Resize of an ADE encrypted OS disk is currently not supported.

## Can I backup and restore an encrypted VM?

Azure Backup provides a mechanism to backup and restore encrypted VM's within the same subscription and region. For instructions, please see [Back up and restore encrypted virtual machines with Azure Backup](../../backup/backup-azure-vms-encryption). Restoring an encrypted VM to a different region is not currently supported.

## Where can I go to ask questions or provide feedback?

You can ask questions or provide feedback on the [Microsoft Q&A question page for Azure Disk Encryption](/en-us/answers/topics/azure-disk-encryption.html).

## Next steps

In this document, you learned more about the most frequent questions related to Azure Disk Encryption. For more information about this service, see the following articles:

* [Azure Disk Encryption Overview](disk-encryption-overview)
* [Apply disk encryption in Azure Security Center](../../security-center/asset-inventory)
* [Azure data encryption at rest](../../security/fundamentals/encryption-atrest)

 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","mainEntity":[{"@type":"Question","name":"What is Azure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eAzure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs uses the dm-crypt feature of Linux to provide full disk encryption of the OS disk\* and data disks. Additionally, it provides encryption of the temporary disk when using the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux#use-encryptformatall-feature-for-data-disks-on-linux-vms\"\u003eEncryptFormatAll feature\u003c/a\u003e. The content flows encrypted from the VM to the Storage backend. Thereby, providing end-to-end encryption with a customer-managed key.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eSee \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-overview#supported-vms-and-operating-systems\"\u003eSupported VMs and operating systems\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Where is Azure Disk Encryption in general availability (GA)?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eAzure Disk Encryption for Linux VMs is in general availability in all Azure public regions.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What user experiences are available with Azure Disk Encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eAzure Disk Encryption GA supports Azure Resource Manager templates, Azure PowerShell, and Azure CLI. The different user experiences give you flexibility. You have three different options for enabling disk encryption for your VMs. For more information on the user experience and step-by-step guidance available in Azure Disk Encryption, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux\"\u003eAzure Disk Encryption scenarios for Linux\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"How much does Azure Disk Encryption cost?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eThere's no charge for encrypting VM disks with Azure Disk Encryption, but there are charges associated with the use of Azure Key Vault. For more information on Azure Key Vault costs, see the \u003ca href=\"https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/key-vault/\"\u003eKey Vault pricing\u003c/a\u003e page.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"How can I start using Azure Disk Encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eTo get started, read the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-overview\"\u003eAzure Disk Encryption overview\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What VM sizes and operating systems support Azure Disk Encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eThe \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-overview\"\u003eAzure Disk Encryption overview\u003c/a\u003e article lists the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-overview#supported-vms\"\u003eVM sizes\u003c/a\u003e and \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-overview#supported-operating-systems\"\u003eVM operating systems\u003c/a\u003e that support Azure Disk Encryption.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I encrypt both boot and data volumes with Azure Disk Encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYes, you can encrypt both boot and data volumes, or you can encrypt the data volume without having to encrypt the OS volume first.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eAfter you've encrypted the OS volume, disabling encryption on the OS volume isn't supported. For Linux VMs in a scale set, only the data volume can be encrypted.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I encrypt an unmounted volume with Azure Disk Encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eNo, Azure Disk Encryption only encrypts mounted volumes.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What is Storage server-side encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eStorage server-side encryption encrypts Azure managed disks in Azure Storage. Managed disks are encrypted by default with Server-side encryption with a platform-managed key (as of June 10, 2017). You can manage encryption of managed disks with your own keys by specifying a customer-managed key. For more information see: \u003ca href=\"../disk-encryption\"\u003eServer-side encryption of Azure managed disks\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"How is Azure Disk Encryption different from Storage server-side encryption with customer-managed key and when should I use each solution?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eAzure Disk Encryption provides end-to-end encryption for the OS disk, data disks, and the temporary disk, using a customer-managed key.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cul\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eIf your requirements include encrypting all of the above and end-to-end encryption, use Azure Disk Encryption.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eIf your requirements include encrypting only data at rest with customer-managed key, then use \u003ca href=\"../disk-encryption\"\u003eServer-side encryption with customer-managed keys\u003c/a\u003e. You cannot encrypt a disk with both Azure Disk Encryption and Storage server-side encryption with customer-managed keys.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eIf your Linux distro is not listed under \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-overview#supported-operating-systems\"\u003esupported operating systems for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e or you are using a scenario called out in the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux#unsupported-scenarios\"\u003eunsupported scenarios for Windows\u003c/a\u003e, consider \u003ca href=\"../disk-encryption\"\u003eServer-side encryption with customer-managed keys\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eIf your organization's policy allows you to encrypt content at rest with an Azure-managed key, then no action is needed - the content is encrypted by default. For managed disks, the content inside storage is encrypted by default with Server-side encryption with platform-managed key. The key is managed by the Azure Storage service.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003c/ul\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"How do I rotate secrets or encryption keys?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eTo rotate secrets, just call the same command you used originally to enable disk encryption, specifying a different Key Vault. To rotate the key encryption key, call the same command you used originally to enable disk encryption, specifying the new key encryption.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cdiv class=\"WARNING\"\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eWarning\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cul\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eIf you have previously used \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux-aad\"\u003eAzure Disk Encryption with Azure AD app\u003c/a\u003e by specifying Azure AD credentials to encrypt this VM, you will have to continue use this option to encrypt your VM. You can't use Azure Disk Encryption on this encrypted VM as this isn't a supported scenario, meaning switching away from Azure AD application for this encrypted VM isn't supported yet.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003c/ul\u003e\n\u003c/div\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"How do I add or remove a key encryption key if I didn't originally use one?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eTo add a key encryption key, call the enable command again passing the key encryption key parameter. To remove a key encryption key, call the enable command again without the key encryption key parameter.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Does Azure Disk Encryption allow you to bring your own key (BYOK)?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYes, you can supply your own key encryption keys. These keys are safeguarded in Azure Key Vault, which is the key store for Azure Disk Encryption. For more information on the key encryption keys support scenarios, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-key-vault\"\u003eCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I use an Azure-created key encryption key?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYes, you can use Azure Key Vault to generate a key encryption key for Azure disk encryption use. These keys are safeguarded in Azure Key Vault, which is the key store for Azure Disk Encryption. For more information on the key encryption key, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-key-vault\"\u003eCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I use an on-premises key management service or HSM to safeguard the encryption keys?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYou can't use the on-premises key management service or HSM to safeguard the encryption keys with Azure Disk Encryption. You can only use the Azure Key Vault service to safeguard the encryption keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-key-vault\"\u003eCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What are the prerequisites to configure Azure Disk Encryption?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eThere are prerequisites for Azure Disk Encryption. See the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-key-vault\"\u003eCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e article to create a new key vault, or set up an existing key vault for disk encryption access to enable encryption, and safeguard secrets and keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-key-vault\"\u003eCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What are the prerequisites to configure Azure Disk Encryption with an Azure AD app (previous release)?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eThere are prerequisites for Azure Disk Encryption. See the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux-aad\"\u003eAzure Disk Encryption with Azure AD\u003c/a\u003e content to create an Azure Active Directory application, create a new key vault, or set up an existing key vault for disk encryption access to enable encryption, and safeguard secrets and keys. For more information on the key encryption key support scenarios, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-key-vault-aad\"\u003eCreating and configuring a key vault for Azure Disk Encryption with Azure AD\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Is Azure Disk Encryption using an Azure AD app (previous release) still supported?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYes. Disk encryption using an Azure AD app is still supported. However, when encrypting new VMs it's recommended that you use the new method rather than encrypting with an Azure AD app.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I migrate VMs that were encrypted with an Azure AD app to encryption without an Azure AD app?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eCurrently, there isn't a direct migration path for machines that were encrypted with an Azure AD app to encryption without an Azure AD app. Additionally, there isn't a direct path from encryption without an Azure AD app to encryption with an AD app.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What version of Azure PowerShell does Azure Disk Encryption support?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eUse the latest version of the Azure PowerShell SDK to configure Azure Disk Encryption. Download the latest version of \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell/releases\"\u003eAzure PowerShell\u003c/a\u003e. Azure Disk Encryption is \u003cem\u003enot\u003c/em\u003e supported by Azure SDK version 1.1.0.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cdiv class=\"NOTE\"\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eNote\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eThe Linux Azure disk encryption preview extension \u0026quot;Microsoft.OSTCExtension.AzureDiskEncryptionForLinux\u0026quot; is deprecated. This extension was published for Azure disk encryption preview release. You should not use the preview version of the extension in your testing or production deployment.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/div\u003e\n\u003cblockquote\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eFor deployment scenarios like Azure Resource Manager (ARM), where you have a need to deploy Azure disk encryption extension for Linux VM to enable encryption on your Linux IaaS VM, you must use the Azure disk encryption production supported extension \u0026quot;Microsoft.Azure.Security.AzureDiskEncryptionForLinux\u0026quot;.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/blockquote\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I apply Azure Disk Encryption on my custom Linux image?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYou can't apply Azure Disk Encryption on your custom Linux image. Only the gallery Linux images for the supported distributions called out previously are supported. Custom Linux images aren't currently supported.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I apply updates to a Linux Red Hat VM that uses the yum update?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYes, you can perform a yum update on a Red Hat Linux VM. For more information, see \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-isolated-network\"\u003eAzure Disk Encryption on an isolated network\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What is the recommended Azure disk encryption workflow for Linux?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eThe following workflow is recommended to have the best results on Linux:\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cul\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eStart from the unmodified stock gallery image corresponding to the needed OS distro and version\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eBack up any mounted drives that will be encrypted. This back up allows for recovery if there's a failure, for example if the VM is rebooted before encryption has completed.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eEncrypt (can take several hours or even days depending on VM characteristics and size of any attached data disks)\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003cli\u003eCustomize, and add software to the image as needed.\u003c/li\u003e\n\u003c/ul\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eIf this workflow isn't possible, relying on \u003ca href=\"../../storage/common/storage-service-encryption\"\u003eStorage Service Encryption\u003c/a\u003e (SSE) at the platform storage account layer may be an alternative to full disk encryption using dm-crypt.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What is the disk \"Bek Volume\" or \"/mnt/azure\_bek\_disk\"?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eThe \u0026quot;Bek volume\u0026quot; is a local data volume that securely stores the encryption keys for Encrypted Azure VMs.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cdiv class=\"NOTE\"\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eNote\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eDo not delete or edit any contents in this disk. Do not unmount the disk since the encryption key presence is needed for any encryption operations on the IaaS VM.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003c/div\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"What encryption method does Azure Disk Encryption use?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eAzure Disk Encryption uses the decrypt default of aes-xts-plain64 with a 256-bit volume master key.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"If I use EncryptFormatAll and specify all volume types, will it erase the data on the data drives that we already encrypted?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eNo, data won't be erased from data drives that are already encrypted using Azure Disk Encryption. Similar to how EncryptFormatAll didn't re-encrypt the OS drive, it won't re-encrypt the already encrypted data drive. For more information, see the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux#use-encryptformatall-feature-for-data-disks-on-linux-vms\"\u003eEncryptFormatAll criteria\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Is XFS filesystem supported?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eEncryption of XFS OS disks is supported.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eEncryption of XFS data disks is supported only when the EncryptFormatAll parameter is used. This will reformat the volume, erasing any data previously there. For more information, see the \u003ca href=\"disk-encryption-linux#use-encryptformatall-feature-for-data-disks-on-linux-vms\"\u003eEncryptFormatAll criteria\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Is resizing the OS partition supported?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eResize of an ADE encrypted OS disk is currently not supported.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Can I backup and restore an encrypted VM? \n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eAzure Backup provides a mechanism to backup and restore encrypted VM's within the same subscription and region. For instructions, please see \u003ca href=\"../../backup/backup-azure-vms-encryption\"\u003eBack up and restore encrypted virtual machines with Azure Backup\u003c/a\u003e. Restoring an encrypted VM to a different region is not currently supported.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}},{"@type":"Question","name":"Where can I go to ask questions or provide feedback?\n","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"\u003cp\u003eYou can ask questions or provide feedback on the \u003ca href=\"/answers/topics/azure-disk-encryption.html\"\u003eMicrosoft Q\u0026amp;A question page for Azure Disk Encryption\u003c/a\u003e.\u003c/p\u003e\n"}}]}

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/79b1327d-d925-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f06a4)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
