# Create a fully qualified domain name for a VM in the Azure portal

* Article
* 02/26/2023
* 5 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** **Applies to:** ✔️ Linux VMs ✔️ Windows VMs

When you create a virtual machine (VM) in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), a public IP resource for the virtual machine is automatically created. You use this public IP address to remotely access the VM. Although the portal doesn't create a [fully qualified domain name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name), or FQDN, you can add one once the VM is created. This article demonstrates the steps to create a DNS name or FQDN. If you create a VM without a public IP address, you can't create an FQDN.

## Create an FQDN

This article assumes that you've already created a VM. If needed, you can create a [Linux](linux/quick-create-portal) or [Windows](windows/quick-create-portal) VM in the portal. Follow these steps once your VM is up and running:

1. Select your VM in the portal.
2. In the left menu, select **Properties**
3. Under **Public IP address\DNS name label**, select your IP address.
4. Under **DNS name label**, enter the prefix you want to use.
5. Select **Save** at the top of the page.
6. Select **Overview** in the left menu to return to the VM overview blade.
7. Verify that the **DNS name** appears correctly.

## Next steps

You can also manage DNS using [Azure DNS zones](../dns/dns-getstarted-portal).

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
