# Quickstart: Create a policy assignment to identify non-compliant resources using JavaScript

* Article
* 06/28/2022
* 3 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

The first step in understanding compliance in Azure is to identify the status of your resources. In
this quickstart, you create a policy assignment to identify virtual machines that aren't using
managed disks. When complete, you'll identify virtual machines that are *non-compliant*.

The JavaScript library is used to manage Azure resources from the command line or in scripts. This
guide explains how to use JavaScript library to create a policy assignment.

## Prerequisites

* **Azure subscription**: If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a
[free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) account before you begin.
* **Node.js**: [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) version 12 or higher is required.

## Azure Cloud Shell

Azure hosts Azure Cloud Shell, an interactive shell environment that you can use through your browser. You can use either Bash or PowerShell with Cloud Shell to work with Azure services. You can use the Cloud Shell preinstalled commands to run the code in this article, without having to install anything on your local environment.

To start Azure Cloud Shell:

| Option | Example/Link |
| --- | --- |
| Select **Try It** in the upper-right corner of a code or command block. Selecting **Try It** doesn't automatically copy the code or command to Cloud Shell. | Screenshot that shows an example of Try It for Azure Cloud Shell. |
| Go to <https://shell.azure.com>, or select the **Launch Cloud Shell** button to open Cloud Shell in your browser. | [Screenshot that shows how to launch Cloud Shell in a new window.](https://shell.azure.com) |
| Select the **Cloud Shell** button on the menu bar at the upper right in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). | Screenshot that shows the Cloud Shell button in the Azure portal |

To use Azure Cloud Shell:

1. Start Cloud Shell.
2. Select the **Copy** button on a code block (or command block) to copy the code or command.
3. Paste the code or command into the Cloud Shell session by selecting **Ctrl**+**Shift**+**V** on Windows and Linux, or by selecting **Cmd**+**Shift**+**V** on macOS.
4. Select **Enter** to run the code or command.

## Add the Policy libraries

To enable JavaScript to work with Azure Policy, the libraries must be added. These libraries work
wherever JavaScript can be used, including [bash on Windows 10](/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

1. Set up a new Node.js project by running the following command.

```
npm init -y

```
2. Add a reference to the yargs library.

```
npm install yargs

```
3. Add a reference to the Azure Policy libraries.

```
# arm-policy is for working with Azure Policy objects such as definitions and assignments
npm install @azure/arm-policy

# arm-policyinsights is for working with Azure Policy compliance data such as events and states
npm install @azure/arm-policyinsights

```
4. Add a reference to the Azure authentication library.

```
npm install @azure/identity

```

Note

Verify in *package.json* `@azure/arm-policy` is version **5.0.1** or higher,
`@azure/arm-policyinsights` is version **5.0.0** or higher, and `@azure/identity` is
version **2.0.4** or higher.

## Create a policy assignment

In this quickstart, you create a policy assignment and assign the **Audit VMs that do not use
managed disks** (`06a78e20-9358-41c9-923c-fb736d382a4d`) definition. This policy definition
identifies resources that aren't compliant to the conditions set in the policy definition.

1. Create a new file named *policyAssignment.js* and enter the following code.

```
const argv = require("yargs").argv;
const { DefaultAzureCredential } = require("@azure/identity");
const { PolicyClient } = require("@azure/arm-policy");

if (argv.subID && argv.name && argv.displayName && argv.policyDefID && argv.scope && argv.description) {

    const createAssignment = async () => {
        const credentials = new DefaultAzureCredential();
        const client = new PolicyClient(credentials, argv.subID);

        const result = await client.policyAssignments.create(
            argv.scope,
            argv.name,
            {
                displayName: argv.displayName,
                policyDefinitionId: argv.policyDefID,
                description: argv.description
            }
        );
        console.log(result);
    };

    createAssignment();
}

```
2. Enter the following command in the terminal:

```
node policyAssignment.js `
   --subID "{subscriptionId}" `
   --name "audit-vm-manageddisks" `
   --displayName "Audit VMs without managed disks Assignment" `
   --policyDefID "/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/06a78e20-9358-41c9-923c-fb736d382a4d" `
   --description "Shows all virtual machines not using managed disks" `
   --scope "{scope}"

```

The preceding commands use the following information:

* **subID** - The subscription ID for authentication context. Be sure to replace `{subscriptionId}`
with your subscription.
* **name** - The unique name for the policy assignment object. The example above uses
*audit-vm-manageddisks*.
* **displayName** - Display name for the policy assignment. In this case, you're using *Audit VMs
without managed disks Assignment*.
* **policyDefID** - The policy definition path, based on which you're using to create the
assignment. In this case, it's the ID of policy definition *Audit VMs that do not use managed
disks*.
* **description** - A deeper explanation of what the policy does or why it's assigned to this scope.
* **scope** - A scope determines what resources or grouping of resources the policy assignment gets
enforced on. It could range from a management group to an individual resource. Be sure to replace
`{scope}` with one of the following patterns:
	+ Management group: `/providers/Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/{managementGroup}`
	+ Subscription: `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}`
	+ Resource group: `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}`
	+ Resource: `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}/providers/{resourceProviderNamespace}/[{parentResourcePath}/]`

You're now ready to identify non-compliant resources to understand the compliance state of your
environment.

## Identify non-compliant resources

Now that your policy assignment is created, you can identify resources that aren't compliant.

1. Create a new file named *policyState.js* and enter the following code.

```
const argv = require("yargs").argv;
const { DefaultAzureCredential } = require("@azure/identity");
const { PolicyInsightsClient } = require("@azure/arm-policyinsights");

if (argv.subID && argv.name) {

    const getStates = async () => {

        const credentials = new DefaultAzureCredential();
        const client = new PolicyInsightsClient(credentials);
        const result = client.policyStates.listQueryResultsForSubscription(
            "latest",
            argv.subID,
            {
                queryOptions: {
                    filter: "IsCompliant eq false and PolicyAssignmentId eq '" + argv.name + "'",
                    apply: "groupby((ResourceId))"
                }
            }
        );
        console.log(result);
    };

    getStates();
}

```
2. Enter the following command in the terminal:

```
node policyState.js --subID "{subscriptionId}" --name "audit-vm-manageddisks"

```

Replace `{subscriptionId}` with the subscription you want to see the compliance results for the
policy assignment named 'audit-vm-manageddisks' that we created in the previous steps. For a list of
other scopes and ways to summarize the data, see
[PolicyStates\*](/en-us/javascript/api/@azure/arm-policyinsights/) methods.

Your results resemble the following example:

```
{
    'additional_properties': {
        '@odata.nextLink': None
    },
    'odatacontext': 'https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/providers/Microsoft.PolicyInsights/policyStates/$metadata#latest',
    'odatacount': 12,
    'value': [{data}]
}

```

The results match what you see in the **Resource compliance** tab of a policy assignment in the
Azure portal view.

## Clean up resources

* Delete the policy assignment *Audit VMs without managed disks Assignment* through the portal. The
policy definition is a built-in, so there's no definition to remove.
* If you wish to remove the installed libraries from your application, run the following command.

```
npm uninstall @azure/arm-policy @azure/arm-policyinsights @azure/identity yargs

```

## Next steps

In this quickstart, you assigned a policy definition to identify non-compliant resources in your
Azure environment.

To learn more about assigning policy definitions to validate that new resources are compliant,
continue to the tutorial for:

[Creating and managing policies](tutorials/create-and-manage)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/675ae472-f324-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0da0)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
