# Maintenance control for OS image upgrades on Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets using PowerShell

* Article
* 11/23/2022
* 4 contributors

Feedback

## In this article

**Applies to:** ✔️ Uniform scale sets

Maintenance control lets you decide when to apply automatic guest OS image upgrades to your Virtual Machine Scale Sets. This topic covers the Azure PowerShell options for Maintenance control. For more information on using Maintenance control, see [Maintenance control for Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets](virtual-machine-scale-sets-maintenance-control).

## Enable the PowerShell module

Make sure `PowerShellGet` is up to date.

```
Install-Module -Name PowerShellGet -Repository PSGallery -Force	

```

Install the `Az.Maintenance` PowerShell module.

```
Install-Module -Name Az.Maintenance

```

If you're installing locally, make sure you open your PowerShell prompt as an administrator.

You may also be asked to confirm that you want to install from an *untrusted repository*. Type `Y` or select **Yes to All** to install the module.

## Connect to an Azure account

Connect to your desired Azure account using [Connect-AzAccount](/en-us/powershell/module/az.accounts/connect-azaccount) and [Set-AzAccount](/en-us/powershell/module/az.accounts/set-azcontext).

```
Connect-AzAccount
Set-AzContext 00a000aa-0a00-0a0a-00aa-a00a000aaa00

$RGName="myMaintenanceRG"
$MaintenanceConfig="myMaintenanceConfig"
$location="eastus2"
$vmss="myMaintenanceVMSS"

```

## Create a maintenance configuration

Create a resource group as a container for your configuration. In this example, a resource group named *myMaintenanceRG* is created in *eastus2*. If you already have a resource group that you want to use, you can skip this part. Just replace the resource group name with your own in the rest of the examples.

```
New-AzResourceGroup `
   -Location $location `
   -Name $RGName

```

Use [New-AzMaintenanceConfiguration](/en-us/powershell/module/az.maintenance/new-azmaintenanceconfiguration) to create a maintenance configuration. This example creates a maintenance configuration named *myConfig* scoped to the OS image.

```
$config = New-AzMaintenanceConfiguration `
   -ResourceGroup $RGName `
   -Name $MaintenanceConfig `
   -MaintenanceScope OSImage `
   -Location $location `
   -StartDateTime "2020-10-01 00:00" `
   -TimeZone "Pacific Standard Time" `
   -Duration "05:00" `
   -RecurEvery "Day"

```

Important

Maintenance **duration** must be *5 hours* or longer. Maintenance **recurrence** must be set to *Day*.

Using `-MaintenanceScope OSImage` ensures that the maintenance configuration is used for controlling updates to the guest OS.

If you try to create a configuration with the same name, but in a different location, you'll get an error. Configuration names must be unique to your resource group.

You can query for available maintenance configurations using [Get-AzMaintenanceConfiguration](/en-us/powershell/module/az.maintenance/get-azmaintenanceconfiguration).

```
Get-AzMaintenanceConfiguration | Format-Table -Property Name,Id

```

## Associate your Virtual Machine Scale Set to the maintenance configuration

A Virtual Machine Scale Set can be associated to any Maintenance configuration regardless of the region and subscription of the Maintenance configuration. By opting in to the Maintenance configuration, new OS image updates for the scale set will be automatically scheduled on the next available maintenance window.

Use [New-AzConfigurationAssignment](/en-us/powershell/module/az.maintenance/new-azconfigurationassignment) to associate your Virtual Machine Scale Set the maintenance configuration.

```
New-AzConfigurationAssignment `
   -ResourceGroupName $RGName `
   -Location $location `
   -ResourceName $vmss `
   -ResourceType VirtualMachineScaleSets `
   -ProviderName Microsoft.Compute `
   -ConfigurationAssignmentName $config.Name`
   -MaintenanceConfigurationId $config.Id

```

## Enable automatic OS upgrade

You can enable automatic OS upgrades for each Virtual Machine Scale Set that is going to use maintenance control. For more information about enabling automatic OS upgrades on your Virtual Machine Scale Set, see [Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set automatic OS image upgrades](../virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-automatic-upgrade).

## Next steps

[Learn about Maintenance and updates for virtual machines running in Azure](maintenance-and-updates)

## Feedback

Submit and view feedback for

[This product](https://feedback.azure.com/d365community/forum/ec2f1827-be25-ec11-b6e6-000d3a4f0f1c)
This page

[View all page feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues)

---
